 The focus of testing is to provide a clear indication teaching methods that are working and ones that are not. No Child Left Behind allows this, making it possible for teachers to adjust their methods accordingly. 
  Claudia Wallis, Sonja Steptoe. "How to Fix No Child Left Behind". Time. May 24, 2007  - "NCLB proponents and critics alike agree that the law's greatest accomplishment has been shinning an unforgiving light on such languishing schools and demanding that they do better."
 Gives school districts the opportunity to demonstrate proficiency, even for subgroups that do not meet State Minimum Achievement standards, through a process called "safe harbor," a precursor to growth-based or value-added assessments.
  "Fact Sheet on the Major Provisions of the Conference Report to H.R. 1, the No Child Left Behind Act". United States Department of Education  - "Strengthening Teacher Quality [...] H.R. 1 asks states to put a highly-qualified teacher in every public school classroom by 2005. The bill also makes it easier for local schools to recruit and retain excellent teachers. [...] H.R. 1 will consolidate smaller programs within the US Department of Education. The bill also creates a new Teacher Quality Program that allows greater flexibility for local school districts. [...] In addition to specific funds for teacher quality, H.R. 1 will also give local schools new freedom to make spending decisions with up to 50 percent of the non-Title I federal funds they receive. With this new freedom, a local school district can use additional funds for hiring new teachers, increasing teacher pay, improving teacher training and development or other uses."
  Walter Haney. "Evidence on Education under NCLB (and How Florida Boosted NAEP Scores and Reduced the Race Gap". September 8, 2006  - "results on NAEP are dubious bases for reaching summary judgments regarding school quality."
  Alfie Kohn. "NCLB: 'Too Destructive To Salvage'". Common Dreams. May 31, 2007  - "This law is not about discovering which schools need help; we already know." 
 Critics of the NCLB requirement for "one high, challenging standard" claim that some students are simply unable to perform at the level for their age, no matter how good the teacher is. EdAccountability.org  While statewide standards reduce the educational inequality between privileged and underprivileged districts in a state, they still impose a "one size fits all" standard on individual students. Particularly in states with high standards, schools can be punished for not being able to dramatically raise the achievement of a student who has below-average capabilities.
  Alfie Kohn. "NCLB: 'Too Destructive To Salvage'". Common Dreams. May 31, 2007  - "according to a recent 50-state survey by Teachers Network, a non-profit education organization, exactly 3% of teachers think NCLB helps them to teach more effectively. No wonder 129 education and civil rights organizations have endorsed a letter to Congress deploring the law's overemphasis on standardized testing and punitive sanctions. No wonder 30,000 people (so far) have signed a petition at educatorroundtable.org calling the law 'too destructive to salvage.'"
  Charles Murray. "Acid Tests". Wall Street Journal. July 25, 2006  - "It pushes classrooms toward relentless drilling, not something that inspires able people to become teachers or makes children eager to learn." 
 No Child Left Behind sets highly restrictive qualifications for teaching in schools. This often means that some schools cannot get enough teachers or that good teachers that do not meet NCLB qualifications cannot continue to teach.
 Punishing teachers for the poor performance of students fails to address the main issue; how to better or differently instruct students. Teachers already have the best interests of their students at heart. Punishing them wrongly assumes that this is not the case, or that teachers cannot simply recognize the need to improve their methods if things are not going well. 
 Many schools are doing a great job and progressing, but are not progressing at the unreasonable pace set by NCLB. They are subsequently punished, despite the fact that they are doing good work.
 While accountability is often considered important among teachers, it is important to consider what teachers are being held accountable for. Many teachers feel they should be held accountable for a more holistic teaching approach, opposed to the kind of test-centric teaching NCLB requires. Teachers want to be accountable for actually educating their students, not merely teaching them how to take a test.
 Because schools and teachers are hyper-sensitive about passing students under NCLB testing, a perverse incentive is created to hold back underperforming students that should pass on to a higher grade simply to avoid the risk that they will take and fail a test. 
 No Child Left Behind creates a perverse incentive for schools to deny entry to underperforming students as a means of decreasing the chances that the school will be labeled "failing" and sanctioned as a consequence. This can leave underperforming students with no place to go to school and with no future.
 Instead of helping lift-up underperforming schools, No Child Left Behind cuts resources to these schools as a means of punishment, counter-productively ensuring the continued failure of these schools.
 No Child Left Behind demands the most improvement from the schools with the least funding and the worst students. This is simply unreasonable.
