  Roger Cohen. "A Court for a New America". New York Times. 3 Dec. 2008  - "I can think of no better place for President-elect Barack Obama to start in signaling a changed American approach to the world, and particularly its European allies, than the International Criminal Court."
  Rebecca Roe. "The U.S. should embrace the international justice system". Seattle Times. 20 Sept 2007 : "The absence of U.S. participation in the ICC is an embarrassment. [...] To stand idly by is to suggest the slaughter of thousands of innocent people is not a moral transgression worthy of our time and effort."
 Without ratifying the Rome Treaty, the US cannot participate in reforming and improving the ICC how the US sees fit, voting on such things as its definition of "aggression". 
  Ian Williams. "Immune from prosecution". Salon. 16 June 2000  - "Other nations' delegations are aghast at what many frankly call the hypocrisy of the American position. After all, Congress vociferously wants international trials for prosecutions of Slobodan Milosevic and Saddam Hussein, not to mention Foday Sankoh from Sierra Leone, the leaders of Khmer Rouge from Cambodia and the Hutu genocide instigators from Rwanda -- and if they could get their hands on him, Moammar Gadhafi of Libya would certainly be dragged before the court [...] So committed is the United States to the principle of trials for all that it sent an army to Panama to bring back President Manuel Noriega to put him in the dock in Miami. But there is one major exception to this principle. We can try who we like, but don't anyone try to try one of ours. For the sake of that, the U.S. delegation is prepared to let a whole rogues' gallery run loose." 
  "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006  - "The current U.S. policy about the use of military tribunals in the war against terrorism could lead to suggestions of a double standard on the part of the United States with respect to procedural safeguards in war crimes trials."
  Emma Bonino. "International Criminal Court Phobia". World Press Review. Apr. 2002  - "The resistance of the U.S. government to support the creation of an International Criminal Court has placed Washington at odds with 139 signatory nations and added a sharp bone of contention to its attempts at building a cohesive anti-terror coalition."
  Dennis Kucinich. "The US Administration and the ICC". Common Dreams. 9 Dec. 2004  - "The Administration has told the American people that it refuses to participate in the ICC in order to protect our troops from being brought to the Hague. [...] It is more likely that those whose protection the administrators seek wear not the uniform of our nation, but the business suits of top civilian government officials who wrap themselves in the flag and hide behind the troops while insisting upon impunity for the deadly consequences of their own political decisions."
  "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006  - "A recent determination by the ICC’s Chief Prosecutor seems to demonstrate a reluctance to launch an investigation against the United States based on allegations regarding its conduct in Iraq." 
  "U.S. Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court". Congressional Research Service. 29 Aug. 2006  - "The ICC’s flaws may allow it to be used by some countries to bring trumped-up charges against American citizens, who, due to the prominent role played by the United States in world affairs, may have greater exposure to such charges than citizens of other nations."
  "Frequently Asked Questions About the U.S. Government's Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court (ICC)". State Department. 30 July 2003  - "Why does the U.S. think its people should be above the law?
  "Frequently Asked Questions About the U.S. Government's Policy Regarding the International Criminal Court (ICC)". State Department. 30 July 2003  - "How can the United States oppose prosecuting war criminals? [...] We do not oppose prosecuting war criminals. We have consistently led the effort to strengthen international justice and accountability."
