  Larry Arnhart. "So What's Wrong with Incest?". Darwinian Conservatism. October 7, 2006  - "the natural aversion to incest among most human beings is so strong that we formulate moral and legal norms against incest and enforce them as expressions of our natural emotional dispositions [...] We can see how reason comes into play here. We might, for example, call on our knowledge of the genetics of inbreeding to rationalize our abhorrence of incest. But this is only a rationalization of a moral abhorrence that causes our moral condemnation of incest as an expression of moral emotion."
  "Sexual Ethics: Consensual Incest". A Nadder. October 13th, 2008  - "It's unnatural -- the same old line's been used to prove the immorality of homosexuality, interracial marriage, contraception etc. Sorry. The answer's always "so what?" (being unnatural doesn't make something bad) and "no it isn't" (eg. 10–15% of college students reported some childhood sexual contact with a brother/sister)." 
 Incest is fairly common in the animal kingdom. In human history, incest has been common, found prominently as far back as Ancient Egypt. This all suggests that incest is fairly "natural", undermining the argument that it is unnatural and immoral. 
  "Sexual Ethics: Consensual Incest". A Nadder. October 13th, 2008  - "On another note, incest is only a matter of degree. We're all related, descending from a common evolutionary ancestor, so everyone on earth is some cousin of yours. Sometimes a close one if you live on an island. It's an evolutionary quirk to distinguish between the in-group (largely relatives) and out-group, as if there's something fundamental about these 2 groups." 
 Incest is against the natural order of things. People are not supposed to mate with blood relatives, but with people from a different family. This is meant to ensure the random mixing of genes that enables variation within human offspring and the potential for evolution. Diverging from this natural order is wrong on many levels. It impairs the natural evolutionary process, which weakens human evolutionary progress and improvement. Symbolically, it diminishes the respect we place on the natural sexual order that has enabled humans to become the sacred creatures that we are. Similarly, for people of faith, it diminishes the value placed on the sexual order created by God.
 In his book The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication, Charles Darwin has a chapter "On the Good Effects of Crossing, and On the Evil Effects of Inbreeding." - "Although there seems to be no strong inherited feeling in mankind against incest, it seems possible that men during primeval times may have been more excited by strange females than by those with whom they habitually lived. . . . If any such feeling formerly existed in man, this would have led to a preference for marriages beyond the nearest kin, and might have been strengthened by the offspring of such marriages surviving in greater numbers." [3] 
