 Evo Morales said in 2009 to a UN meeting of the Commission for Narcotic Drugs: "We're for the coca leaf but against cocaine. The coca leaf should no longer be vilified and criminalized!" [8] 
  If legalized, farmers will shift their production of coca from cocaine-purposed coca to open market coca production. Legal production is much more secure from government action. 
 Pasquale Quispe, 53, owner of a 7.4-acre Bolivian coca farm, explained to the New York Times in 2006: "Coca is our daily bread, what gives us work, what gives us our livelihood. In other countries, they say coca is drugs, but we don't use drugs. It's the gringos who use drugs." [9] 
 All South American countries have signed several declarations by the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) that acknowledged that the chewing of coca leaves is an ancestral cultural expression that should be respected by the international community. [10] 	+	
 In Bolivia, coca production is legal, but within strict limits. Only a certain amount of the stuff can be grown, and amounts exceeding these numbers are subject to eradication. Bolivia excepted $250,000 from the US in April of 2011, for example, for satellite monitoring of its coca fields. This helps ensure that coca is not excessively grown for use in cocaine; much more coca is required to produce cocaine than is required for natural consumption such as chewing. This is just one way in which coca production can be regulated to ensure against abuse in cocaine production. 
  Evo Morales "Let Me Chew My Coca Leaves." New York Times Editorial. March 13th, 2009 : "Today, millions of people chew coca in Bolivia, Colombia, Peru and northern Argentina and Chile. The coca leaf continues to have ritual, religious and cultural significance that transcends indigenous cultures and encompasses the mestizo population." 
 Pacífico Olivares, 49, a regional leader of coca farmers: "What blame do we have when we don't make cocaine? They should chase down the people who make cocaine." [11] 
