 - Dr. Paul Samuelson in 2005, Nobel Prize winner in Economics - "USA's balance of payments deficit is so strong and irreversible, that we must accept that at some future date there will be a run against the dollar. Probably, the kind of disorderly run that precipitates a global financial crisis." [1] 
 "The Inevitable Collapse of the Dollar" YouTube Video
 
 
 In the absence of debt monetization, when the Government borrows money from the savings of others, it consumes the amount of savings there are to lend. If the government were to borrow less, that money would be freed to work in the private sector and would lower interest rates overall. Lastly, raising interest rates is one of the traditional ways that the U.S. Federal Reserve uses to combat inflation (which can be brought on by government debt), but a large national debt figure makes it difficult to do so because it raises the interest paid in servicing that debt.
 
 
 
 
 
 The debt of United States, roughly 65% of its annual GDP, ranks the 35th highest in the world. France is 30th with debt equivalent to roughly 66% of its GDP. Germany ranks 29th with debt equivalent to roughly 66% of its GDP. Canada ranks 25th with roughly debt equivalent to roughly 70% of its GDP. Japan ranks fourth, with debt equivalent to roughly 158% of its GDP. Other industrialized nations ranking above  the United States (with higher debt/GDP ratios) include Austria, Belgium, Israel, Singapore, Greece, and Italy. Other industrialized countries with Debt/GDP ratios in the 60% and 50% range include Portugal, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. Brazil and India also fall into this range. This all indicates that the US Debt is not that extraordinary or necessarily worrisome when comparing its Debt/GDP ratio to other industrialized countries. [5] 
 Following John Maynard Keynes, many economists recommend deficit spending in order to moderate or end a recession, especially a severe one. When the economy has high unemployment, an increase in government purchases creates a market for business output, creating income and encouraging increases in consumer spending, which creates further increases in the demand for business output. (This is the multiplier effect). This raises the real gross domestic product (GDP) and the employment of labor, all else constant lowering the unemployment rate. (The connection between demand for GDP and unemployment is called Okun's Law.) Cutting personal taxes and/or raising transfer payments can have similar expansionary effects, though most economists would say that such policies have weaker effects on , which method has a better stimulative economic effect is a matter of debate. The increased size of the market, due to government deficits, can further stimulate the economy by raising business profitability and spurring optimism, which encourages private fixed investment in factories, machines, and the like to rise. This accelerator effect stimulates demand further and encourages rising employment.
 Since the money supply is reduced when the U.S. Government pays down its debt, the unintended result of a government surplus could be a deflationary recession as the money supply contracts in the reverse of the process of monetization described above. The government can avoid this unfortunate consequence by instead focusing on expanding its GDP and thereby "reducing" the percentage of GDP that debt represents. The hope is that the deficit spending that increases the debt will increase GDP by a greater amount, and thus — in relative terms, at least — the debt would decrease. This worked to great effect in the U.S. between the end of World War II and 1980, even though the debt showed a net increase in absolute value over the same period. 
 

