 This is the same case as with African-Americans during the WWII. They weren't allowed to fight in the war (only until several laws were passed). The African-American situation was similar to our situation. Just because of some fictious, bigoted beliefs, the African-Americans weren't allowed to serve in combat, making both the nation outraged and the African-Americans frustrated. The same applies to gays. It's also just because of some fictious, bigoted beliefs that gays can't fight as well.
  Anna Quindlen. "The End Of An Error". Newsweek. April 4, 2009  - "When it became law in 1993, the policy was sold as an attempt to allow gays to serve if they did not discuss their orientation or participate in homosexual acts—that is, if they lived a life of pretense and self-denial not required of straight counterparts. Shame and second-class status were therefore built into the deal, and unsurprisingly led to a reality in which exemplary soldiers were harassed, investigated and expelled based on "evidence" as negligible as friendly banter or thoughtless gossip."
  "‘Dont Ask, Don’t Tell’ Hurts ROTC, Too". The Cornell Daily Sun. February 14th, 2008  - "[Army Col. Stewart] Bornhoft says "don't ask, don't tell" harms the armed forces because "A simple question of what [you did] this weekend, you can't answer truthfully if you spent it with gay friends. It legally mandates that [LGBT service members] be less than honest and prevents them from having the same rights that other service members have when it comes to spousal benefits or housing allowances or notices to next of kin or simply kissing loved ones when you deploy to defend the country."
 Tech. Sgt. Leonard Matlovich: "I'm intensely proud to be gay and you should be, too. Unless we state our case, we'll continue to be robbed of our role models, our heritage, our history, and our future." [11] 
  "Editorial: Don't ask, don't tell, just act." Emerald Editorial Board. October 15, 2009 : "On National Coming Out Day this past Monday, more than 80 students signed their names to a list that appeared on the back page of the Emerald. The list declared the students, along with professors, co-workers, alumni and friends, among the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer members of our community. It was an act of courage, even in the mostly welcoming city of Eugene, considering signing one’s name under the LGBTQ section of the list is enough to be disqualified from serving in the nation’s military."
  "Obama needs to dump 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' now." Examiner. October 12, 2009 : "The true conservative respects the principles of liberty and privacy, the principles of meritocracy, and the armed forces our nation has charged to defend it. But "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" undermines all three. [...] True conservatives respect individual freedom and personal privacy, particularly when it comes to what people do in privacy of the bedroom. It's the last place a government should be poking its nose. Anything else is nothing but an unconscionable intrusion into the private lives of American citizens." 
  Cal Thomas. "Don't Ask, Tell or Legitimize." Townhall.com. October 15, 2009 : "The military should not be a test lab. Pressure is building to put female sailors on submarines, along with gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people presumably. That many heterosexuals find homosexual behavior immoral and not conducive to unit cohesion is of no concern to the social wrecking crew. [...] What gay activists apparently don't care about is the effect reshaping the military in their image would have on our ability to fight and defend the country, which, after all, is the purpose of a military." 
  Robert Maginnis. "Gays in the Military Debate". Human Events. October 4, 2007  - "The 1993 ban is premised on the fact that there is no constitutional right to serve. Thus, Congress may decide who should or should not serve. For 231 years, the US military has discriminated among potential recruits based on a variety of characteristics and behaviors, with the intent of forming the best possible force. That’s why, according to the General Accountability Office, the Pentagon discharged 59,098 service personnel for drug offenses, 26,513 for weight standards and 9,501 for homosexuality between 1993 and 2004."
  Cal Thomas. "Don't ask don't tell, and don't legitimize." Salt Lake City Tribune. October 15, 2009 : "The place to start is whether citizens of this country, through their elected representatives and the military leaders named by them, have a right to determine what type of service members best serve the interests, safety and security of the United States. I contend we do. The military should not be a test lab." 
 "Don't ask, don't tell" has been upheld five times in federal court, and in a Supreme Court case, Rumsfeld v. Forum for Academic and Institutional Rights, Inc. (2006). [12] 
  "The Pentagon's New Policy Guidelines on Homosexuals in the Military". The New York Times. July 20, 1993 : "Sexual orientation will not be a bar to service unless manifested by homosexual conduct. The military will discharge members who engage in homosexual conduct, which is defined as a homosexual act, a statement that the member is homosexual or bisexual, or a marriage or attempted marriage to someone of the same gender." [13]  In other words, the policy does not prohibit being gay in the military, but only expressions of that homosexuality. 
