 School vouchers allow for greater economic diversity by offering lower income students opportunities to attend previously unaffordable private schools. School voucher proponent and Nobel Prize winning economist Milton Friedman observed that the poor have an incentive to support school choice, as their children attend substandard schools, and would thus benefit most from alternative schools and access to private schools. In turn, increasing the poor's access to better schools helps increase their chances of success and decreases inequality.
 There may be small achievement gains in mathematics for the African-American and Hispanic children who use vouchers. The main reason is that it increases access to better schools and better educations, which are a key factor in improving academic achievement.
 Some proponents of school vouchers, including the Sutherland Institute and many supporters of the Utah voucher effort, see it as a remedy for historic cultural genocide committed against demographic minorities by compulsory public schools. This is because public school standards and tests are established, usually, by non-minorities that are insensitive to the different cultures of minorities. They insensitivities ultimately undermine these minority cultures, sometimes intentionally, in a form of "cultural genocide". Vouchers offer choices and alternatives that counter the monopoly of public school standard-bearers and those committing "cultural genocide".
 The division between private and public schools is very prominent in society, based largely on the socio-economic ability of parents. Vouchers help combat this by providing disadvantaged groups with the opportunity to attend private schools. [4] 
 Because private schools can exclude students, even ones with vouchers, there is a tendency for them to exclude certain socio-economic, ethnic, or disabled groups. Vouchers do not help prevent such exclusion and discrimination.  
  "The Case Against Vouchers". National Education Association : "A pure voucher system would only encourage economic, racial, ethnic, and religious stratification in our society. America's success has been built on our ability to unify our diverse populations." The general logic for this is that vouchers would often be used by parents and students to attend schools with like-minded students, whether black, hispanic, catholic, or disabled. They, therefore, allow for the separation of groups, and the problems of misunderstanding and division that follow as a result.
  "The Case Against Vouchers". National Education Association  - "Americans want consistent standards for students. Where vouchers are in place -- Milwaukee, Cleveland, and Florida -- a two-tiered system has been set up that holds students in public and private schools to different standards." 
 A voucher system that offers choice to parents is used most by affluent parents that are already engaged in the education of their students and whom would prefer that their child leave a failing school. Poor and disadvantaged parents are less likely to take advantage of vouchers. The result is that affluent students go to better schools, while poor and disadvantaged students generally stay in underperforming schools. Instead of helping the disadvantaged, vouchers actually end up leaving them behind. [5] 
 Voucher are like a discount coupon for those who can already afford the full cost of a private school education. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, 76% of the money handed out for Arizona’s voucher program has gone to children already in private schools. [6] 
