 Parents and students have a right to choose what school they will attend. Forcing a child to attend a public school, even if it is not a healthy and productive environment for them, is wrong. Vouchers afford children and their parents are right to choose which school best fits their needs and desires. It affords greater decision-making power and freedom to citizens, instead of the state, on a matter of tremendous importance to their lives and futures. This is righteous in principle.
 It is true that private schools can deny students they believe to be unqualified. Nevertheless, vouchers generally improve student and parent choice and access to private schools by making it more affordable. Vouchers need not make student access 100% perfect. It is enough that it simply improves choice and access.
 Parents who have greater choice are more likely to be involved in their children's schooling. Vouchers demand that a parent choose and control paying for the education of their children, thus initiating their involvement in their child's education. 
 The voucher program in New Zealand benefited students in both the private and public schools by putting funding in the hands of students and parents instead of bureaucrats. Parents will almost always make a better decision in choosing a school. The success of education vouchers in New Zealand is a good example of what it can achieve elsewhere in the world.
 New Zealand's education vouchers worked.
 
 Vouchers do not provide all public school students with a choice to attend private schools. Private schools can, inherently, deny applicants entry. The main problem with this is that many of the most needy disadvantaged groups are already being turned away by private schools, so education vouchers may not provide them with any greater choice or access to private schools. Public schools are open to all students, and this is why the disadvantaged should be helped through the public school system.
 The argument for vouchers relies on the premise that there is not enough choice in the public school system. This may be true. But, it is possible to have enhance choice for students/parents between public schools without vouchers. By simply allowing some or all students to attend public schools outside of their schooling district, for example, choice can be enhanced. By not considering these simple mechanisms for choice within the public school system, vouchers overshoot. 
 Given the limited budget for schools, a voucher system weakens public schools while at the same time not necessarily providing enough money for people to attend private schools. Some private elementary and high schools are nearly $20,000 - $30,000 per year. Most voucher programs are in the range of $5,000 to $15,000. Many disadvantaged students and parents will not be able to pay the difference - ranging from $25,000 to $5,000. This means vouchers do not necessarily offer the disadvantaged the opportunity and choice to attend expensive private schools. 
