  Evo Morales "Let Me Chew My Coca Leaves." New York Times Editorial. March 13th, 2009 : "The custom of chewing coca leaves has existed in the Andean region of South America since at least 3000 B.C. It helps mitigate the sensation of hunger, offers energy during long days of labor and helps counter altitude sickness." 
  "Coca yes, Cocaine no?" Drugs and Conflict Debate Papers. 2006 : "Sacred: to communicate with the supernatural world and obtain its protection, especially with offerings to the Pachamama, the personification and spiritual form of the earth."
 Bolivian President Evo Morales, an Aymara Indian, said in January of 2011: "How can it be possible that the coca leaf, which represents our identity, which is ancestral, be penalized." [6] 
 Morales called coca chewing a "factor in social cohesion," enshrining this principle into a newly adopted constitution as of January of 2009. : "Coca yes, Cocaine no?" Drugs and Conflict Debate Papers. 2006 : "Social: to maintain social cohesion and cooperation among members of the community, it is used in community ceremonies, as a “payment” for labor exchange and a social relations instrument.
 Coca chewing far pre-dates cocaine use. It has existed for thousands of years. Cocaine has only a hundred year history. It is wrong, therefore, to ban coca use due to the modern difficulties with cocaine - it's unfair to the legacy of coca.
 Coca is an essential stimulant in daily life in the Andes, just as coffee is in the West. It is consumed by millions of indigenous people. Trying to ban it is just futile.
 Latvia opposed Bolivia's 2011 proposed amendment to the UN's narcotics treaty with the following language: that because the purpose of Bolivia’s amendment is “to maintain a habit and socio-cultural practice, not a medical or scientific purpose,” coca leaf chewing still needs to be abolished. [7] 
 Continuing a tradition is always a weak argument in defense of a policy. Traditions need to stand on their own merits, beyond the simple fact that people have done it in the past. 
  "Coca yes, Cocaine no?" Drugs and Conflict Debate Papers. 2006 : "While it is true that coca and cocaine are not the same, without cocaine coca would never have occupied such an important place in Andean culture."
