 As  Lupia and Mc Cubbins  argue, voters do not necessarily need perfect information to make reasonable decisions. They can rely on information shortcuts and cues - and even if they are sometimes affected by their emotions their decisions do not have to be worse than the politicians' ones. As an example we can look to Switzerland where direct democracy works perfectly well as the people are able to decide even on complex issues regarding taxes or other "complicated" policies.
 While politicians try to determine what's in the best interests of citizens, citizens themselves are better at making these kinds of determinations.
 Arizona State Rep. Kyrsten Sinema said in 2008 in regards to initiatives intended to ban racial quotas: "People have a right to sign a petition, hear the arguments and then vote." [2] 
 It is certainly true that direct democracy requires that citizens participate actively in the political process and that they inform themselves on the issues surrounding them. This creates a strong incentive for citizens to inform themselves on the important issues of the day. 
 Citizens identify themselves more closely with the government policies when they are allowed to cast votes. Only when they do so is the government a "government by the people, of the people and for the people." This is not a privilege for citizens. It is a responsibility. 
 The people are right when they oppose a policy in their neighbourhood that would worsen their quality of life. The politicians who advocate new nuclear power plants or motorways are usually unwilling to have them at their own back-garden; why should the ordinary people be different? In summary, NIMBYism is beneficial for society because it prevents wrong decisions made by people who wouldn't have to carry the burden of living in a particular area.
  James Boyle. "The initiative and referendum: its folly, fallacies, and failure." (1912) : "a small minority of the total number of the voters and human nature being what it is probably a large proportion of the signers have not got the slightest knowledge of what they signed It is notorious that men can be easily persuaded to sign petitions for almost anything."
 Voters tend to look after their self-interests, rather than the bigger picture of what needs doing. NIMBYism ("Not in my back yard" thinking) is an example of this, where voters avoid making personal sacrifices in "their own back yard" even if the sacrifices are essential to the common good.
 The average voter may not be interested in politics and therefore may not participate. In a system with citizen initiatives and direct democracy, high voter apathy may make the subsequent decisions unrepresentative of broader public opinion or possibly just bad policy. 
 When presented with a single yes/no question, usually without any information on the issue at hand, people tend to make spur-of-the-moment decisions based on emotions, driven by anger, fear and hatred. For example, in the first Irish referendum on Lisbon Treaty, 15% (!) of the voters made up their mind on the day of the referendum itself.  [3] 
 The problem with direct democracy is that the general public can hardly ever think about the issues at hand in the long-term. People may be aware of the fact that something needs to be done about some burning issue, however, they are unwilling to propose any plan if it entails some discomfort to them. An example of this is called NIMBYism: "Not In My Backyard" point of view. In practise it occurs when a broadly necessary thing, such as wind-turbines, are rejected "in my back-yard" due to selfish interests. Elected leaders can help push these kinds of necessary decisions through.
  James Boyle. "The initiative and referendum: its folly, fallacies, and failure." (1912) : "There seems to be little capacity for discrimination [in Direct Democracy]. Again very radical measures and many indeed of dangerous tendencies are not always rejected by the people or if they are there are not a few cases in which this result seems to have been brought about by accident rather than by serious moral purpose."
 
