 The year of the re-emergence of Israel as a nation was predicted in the Bible, as well as many other things such as the European Union, the euro, and possibly also the atomic bomb and satellite television. Christ's life was described in great detail by the prophets centuries before the events happened, and many of these events can be verified by sources outside of the Bible. It is obviously highly unlikely that such prophecies were not divinely inspired.
 for a list of prophecies that have been fulfilled as well as other evidences for biblical inerrancy.
 The definition of "spam" (in the electronic sense at any rate) is "unsolicited or undesired email messages" (from Wikipedia).
 If they were, why do they often have such a heavy warning tone- especially the ones predicting the invasion of Israel and Judah by the Babylonians and Assyrians-which also came true?
 Opposite was an argument detailing a prophecy made by Jesus which was seemingly false because that generation died before all of the signs of the end of the age had occurred, however, the footnotes of the NIV translation of the Bible mention that the word translated as "generation" could also be translated "race". Problem solved. 
 Take the messianic prophecies- if they had been vague the Jewish people would not have understood them so well to the point where they were longing for the coming of the Messiah (especially after the Roman occupation).
 Christ's life was described in great detail by the prophets, and many of the fulfilments of those prophecies could not possibly have been arranged by a con man. How could Jesus have chosen his town of birth, betrayal price, his method of execution (crucifixion was a execution method that no one in their right mind would chose, and dying on a tree as prophesied was in Jewish tradition viewed as probably the most ignominious way to die), his betrayer, that he would be mocked, spat on, wounded (but without breaking any bones) and would have his clothes gambled for in the lead up to his death? 
 Other "prophets" such as Jeane Dixon, Edgar Cayce, and Nostradamus have a large following, and many claims have been made as to the accuracy of their predictions, however, many of their predictions failed to come true, and also the ones that did come true were either very vague/ self-fulfillable in comparison to the Bible, or were made too close to their fulfilment and at a time when the odds were easily stacked in their favour. For a lengthier comparison between these false prophets and the Bible, we again point to bibleevidences.com.
 The con side have claimed that there are no outside-of-the-Bible verifications of fulfilments of Biblical prophecies, however, the prophecies concerning Tyre in Ezekiel 26 and 27 are verified by secular historians, for instance, over the site where Tyre once was, fishermen now often spread their nets, as foretold.  
