 If an immigrant does not know English, and an accident happens, they need to know how to communicate with a 9/11 agent, or police that arrive on the seen. It is unreasonable to rely on Spanish speaking infrastructure in the event of emergency, when rapid communication is needed.
 Official English does not constrain the government to always, in every situation, providing only English in its services. It, rather, makes a general rule that the government is not obligated to provide these services, but allows for the government to provide services in other languages when there is an exceptional, compelling state interest to do so, particularly for health, safety, tourism, economic development, and for libraries' foreign language materials. [8] 
 If a driver's license can be issued through a non-English test, then the driver with that license may be unable to read road-signs, which can be a public safety hazard.
 Official English encourages individuals to learn English, which is essential in being able to participate in American democracy.
  "Tennessee becomes first state to protect businesses with English workplace policies." US English. June 24th, 2010 : "With the signature of Democratic Governor Phil Bredesen, Tennessee became the first state today to protect the rights of businesses to have English-in-the-workplace policies where there is a 'legitimate business necessity.' [...] The bill, which passed overwhelmingly with bipartisan support in the state House and Senate, was designed to comply with rules set by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and to protect businesses from lawsuits. Federal courts have affirmed that businesses can require their employees to speak English during business operations and for safety reasons."
 "English-Only Negatively Impacts the Government’s Response to Disasters." MALDEF on OpposingViews.com: "Examples of situations in which government officials must communicate efficiently and effectively to ensure the safety of the general populace abound. In the event of a natural disaster or terrorist threat, for example, federal emergency workers must be able to convey important information and instructions to as broad an audience as possible, a need that may require the use of languages other than English.  A national English-only policy would impede the government’s ability to convey warnings or post danger or hazard signs in languages other than English. Such a policy would prevent local law enforcement from effectively investigating crimes, communicating with crime victims or witnesses, or providing critically needed services to victims of domestic violence and abuse?
  Linguistic Society of America Resolution on English Only. July 1, 1987 : "It is to the economic and cultural advantage of the nation as a whole that its citizens should be proficient in more than one language, and to this end we should encourage both foreign language study for native English speakers, and programs that enable speakers with other linguistic backgrounds to maintain proficiency in those languages along with English."
 If official English has the effect of diminishing linguistic diversity in a country, this will be bad for international diplomatic efforts abroad and at home that require this diversity. 
