 Even science can't prove that God doesn't exist. The Bible could not have been created out of nothing, by nobody. Alike in the case of the creation of the world. The God is the creator of the world. 
 There is good evidence that God exists and there are good arguments for accepting religious beliefs. The fact that we live in a beautiful, orderly universe in which human beings exist and have special moral and spiritual awareness points clearly to the existence of a divine Creator behind the universe. Billions of people have had religious experiences of one sort or another - all of them revealing the existence of divine reality - the only good explanation of this fact is that the divine reality is really there.
 Science and religion have more in common than atheists care to admit. What we accept as scientific theory about how the universe came into being, is just as absurd as the notion of an intelligent being willing it to happen. 
 There is no need to prove faith or God's existence. It is just the same to attempt to prove the existence of love. It exists, although it cannot be fully described or proven.
 The law of conservation of matter and energy states that the total amount of all the matter plus all the energy in the universe can never change, though matter can be changed into energy and vice versa, and that neither can be created or destroyed. However, at the Big Bang all of the matter and energy in the universe was  created , which naturally leads us to the assumption that  the Big Bang must have been caused by something which was not subject to these most basic laws of physics, and is therefore almost certainly not subject to any of them - why should it comply with some but not others? If this thing was not subject to the laws of physics, then there is no reason why it should be subject to them now. Being superior to the laws of physics also suggests that  this thing must be eternal and unchanging  since decay and change only take place on the physical plane. Of course, the Judaeo- Christian view of God complies easily with these concepts and is therefore the most rational explanation of our existence.
 A first cause is necessary for the universe make sense. We make no apology for replying with "no one" to atheist's favourite question "Who made God?". There must have been a first cause and it is God who is the most reasonable candidate for this, especially in the light of the arguments detailed in the previous paragraph.       
 Religious belief is completely irrational. There is no evidence that God exists. Reported miracles, healings etc. are never reliably proved actually to have happened, and in any case everyone’s religious experiences are different and point to the psychological differences between human beings not to any objective divine reality. Belief in God is simply wish-fulfilment. It would be nice if there was a loving all powerful being watching over us, but there isn’t.
