 A tree is a tree, a table is a table - A is A. Man's reasoning mind is his only means of survival. And therefor, he  can only take facts of reality as truth. Or, to put it another way, wishing won't make it so. Religion advocates the premise of an omnipotent, omniscient, mystical being - a being whose only definition is that he is beyond man's power to conceive.
 Reason is man's only means of survival. For example, if a hungry person needs food he must use his reasoning mind to establish the best method of obtaining food, and then act upon his decision. If he ignores his mind and preys for food, he will starve - and that is a fact of reality. Existence exists independent of man's mind, or to put it simply, A is A. Every argument for god's existence is fundamentally floored. As is the phrase: "you can't prove god doesn't exist." First of all, you cannot be called upon to prove a negative. How can somebody disprove a concept if there is no evidence to support it? Again, to put it simply, observe the following conversation: Person X - "I just observed two pigs flying while you were looking the other way"; Person Y - "That's impossible"; Person X - "I did, I just seen two flying pigs"; Person Y - "Prove it"; Person X - "Disprove it".
 Another fallacy, which should be understood by those who advocate an omnipotent, omniscient, mystical father figure, who contradicts every law of nature, and who destroys mans mind by faking reality, should note this: a person achieves, he thanks god. a person fails, he blames himself. Do you see where this leads? 
 Even assuming the theological premises of religion are valid, the epistemological basis for divine gnosis, cannot be communicated free of interpretation and bias.  In contrast knowledge obtained through empirical evidence is communicable as the skeptic can independently repeat the observation or analysis of data.  If wisdom exists in the social proscriptions of a given religion's dogma then that wisdom can be empirically verified.  On the other hand if "the message" has been altered or misunderstood by "the messenger" then in obedience to religious authority pious society does not question the validity of the claims through empirical means.  Thus flaws remain which lead to unjust persecutions and unnecessary conflicts such as jihad's, witch trials, and inquisitions.
 Once we needed gods or deities to explain our world and to give us some hope of purpose. God is a trap for lazy people who find it easier to have someone think for them. Science has explained many of the processes of the universe that were once gods. God also provides humanity (in their vanity) a special purpose beyond that of other life. Our arrogance caused us to believe we are special so we created God and an afterlife.
 Morals and right and wrong come directly from religion. If a person has no religion, then there is no standard of personal morals other than what feels good, or what they want to do. Religion provides a basis on which to build a meaningful life. 
 The author fails to provide evidence for this statement, and daily life and common sense both show that this is not a sound statement.  According to the argument that follows under the initial premise, if one believes in God then he ought to be starving to death: “… if a hungry person needs food he must use his  reasoning  mind to establish the best method of obtaining food, and then act upon his decision.” Because people who believe in God “reject reason” the author is saying that those people must be either dead, starving, or have someone feeding them, which is obviously not the case. The fact that “existence exists independent of man’s mind” does nothing to advance the initial premise. Finally the author spends time stating that one cannot prove a negative, which is true, but does nothing to promote the initial premise of “If you believe in God, then you reject reason.” 
 Even if one assumes the foundational theological premises of religions are false, competing religious beliefs about proper personal and social behavior acts as a social "genetic code".  Societies and sub-societies in the past  prospered in a virtual form of natural selection based on the amount of wisdom encoded in their religious doctrine.  Examples of "unclean" foods and practices which predate scientific knowledge of germs, suggest similar social wisdom may be encoded in religious proscriptions.  Until and unless we fully develop a rigorous, empirical science of social behavior, and evolve non-religious disciplines and institutions to serve this role we should not lightly dismiss religion based social wisdom.
 This is because of our easily corruptible nature- which history has shown. With no leader society falls into chaos and anarchy, with weak, frequently changing leaders we fall into a process of dithering politics and slow moral decline, and with corrupt dictators we are subjected to human rights abuses and restrictions of freedom of speech etc. But God cannot be corrupted. Those who follow him will not be treated badly by him but will still be able to maintain their moral standards. God is the only hope for humanity, those who reject him reject humanity's last hope.
 The Bible itself denounces laziness, especially in Proverbs and also Paul says "If a man shall not work he shall not eat." True, not all theists are amazingly hard working, but the same can be said of atheists also.
