 Admissions is all about judging the overall merit of a candidate. This is, more and more, a judgment of the life and character of a candidate, which is often outlined in stunning detail on social networking profiles (interests, activism, social-interactions...). Therefore, Facebook, Myspace, and other social networking profiles of candidates are highly relevant to an admissions officer, and justifies their approaching this information to make their judgement on the candidate. 
 Giving the sensitivity to the admissions process in regard to fairness, this is very important.
 It inherently facilities interactions between students and college admissions officers, and with the express approval of both. It demonstrates that there is a value in social networking for applicant-college interactions, instead of it being something that should be feared as the proposition seems to suggest. 
 Imagining that colleges do search on social networking sites to find candidates, it should be understood that only the applicants which have become a member of such sites would be seen and gain advantage. But, what about those who don't become a member in any of the social networking sites available on the web? The problem is that there are poor students out there who are really smart and deserve university admission, but, pity for them, they do not have enough resources to get a computer and establish a personal profile on a social networking site. Therefore, a system in which colleges search for applicants will only promote an unfair admission of students.  
 It is unethical to snoop around on a personal profile of a candidate for information pertaining to an individual and their merit for entry into a University. This information is not necessarily relevant to the process at hand. Only relevant information should be viewed by admission's officers
 Consent is a significant element of the admissions process. A contract of sorts is entered between the candidate and college in which relevant information is supplied by the candidate. Relevant information can be checked through official third-party sources such as the SATs and high schools. This remains consensual because the applicant entered into a disclosure agreement with their high school and the preparers of the SATs, which gives authority to admissions officers to view relevant information about the applicant. But no such contract is established if an admissions officer "snoops" onto a profile. It thus breaks the mold of consent and acceptability in the admissions process.  
