 Government subsidy of the arts is unnecessary as if art is good enough, then people will pay for it. If art is not good enough to be popular, then government should not reward it for its failure. The success of the unsubsidised popular music industry in Britain contrasts with the failure of the subsidised British film industry. Why should London have five symphony orchestras if there is not enough demand to justify them? The arts in the US are largely unsubsidised and they are thriving and popular.
 There are alternatives to government subsidy or relying solely on ticket sales to fund the arts. The patronage of rich enthusiasts is still a very important force in the art world, as it was in Shakespeare’s or Mozart’s day. Companies are often keen to sponsor the arts as it gives them an opportunity to associate their brand with creativity, generosity and excellence. The USA offers generous tax breaks to individuals and companies to support the arts and has developed a culture of personal philanthropy which is very different to that of subsidy-dependent Europe.
 Local theatres would be forced to shut, film industries would shrink, national theatre, opera and ballet companies would disband or merge, museums would close their doors. Although some people will value the arts highly enough to pay a market rate for them, they are too few to maintain a diverse and extensive artistic sector which can improve the quality of life for all. In addition, exposing the arts to the full winds of the economic cycle means that skills and institutions lost during recessions can never be reestablished successfully when business improves - art is not a commodity.
 Commercially-funded arts have to play to the lowest common denominator, avoiding risk by providing what has proved popular and successful in the past (for example, musicals and endless productions of Shakespeare’s As You Like It or Tchaikovsky’s Nutcracker Suite). Subsidised companies can afford to take more risks and to experiment, enabling new styles and forms of art to emerge and to become popular in their own right.
