  Scot Lehigh. "A large stimulus bill for large problems". The Boston Globe. February 6, 2009  - "Although one can debate the necessity or importance of various projects, almost any new spending will have a stimulative effect - including resodding the National Mall."
  Barack Obama. "We Can't Afford to Wait". February 9, 2009 : "this plan will provide for extended unemployment insurance, health care and other assistance for workers and families who have lost their jobs in this recession. [...] That will mean an additional $100 per month in unemployment benefits to more than 450,000 Indiana workers, extended unemployment benefits for another 89,000 folks who've been laid off and can't find work, and job training assistance to help more than 51,000 people here get back on their feet. [...] That is not only our moral responsibility - to lend a helping hand to our fellow Americans in times of emergency - but it also makes good economic sense. If you don't have money, you can't spend it. And if people don't spend, our economy will continue to decline."
  "The Stimulus Tragedy". Wall Street Journal (editorial). February 6, 2009  - "Some Democrats claim these transfer payments are stimulating because they go mainly to poor people, who immediately spend the money. Tax cuts for business or for incomes across the board won't work, they add, because those tax cuts go disproportionately to "the rich," who will save the money. But a saved $1 doesn't vanish from the economy, unless it is stuffed into a mattress. It enters the financial system, where it is lent to others; or it is invested in the stock market as capital for businesses; or it is invested in entirely new businesses, which are the real drivers of job creation and prosperity. [...] At the current moment, amid a capital strike, the latter is the kind of fiscal stimulus we really need. Yet there is virtually none of it in the bills now moving through Congress. Senate moderates may succeed in cutting $100 billion or so in spending from the bill, which is political window dressing. Even they aren't talking about adding the kind of tax cuts that would really help the economy now."
