 Pentagon, hardly a symbol of peace, has been rebuilt. Twin towers weren't. The message that this sends to the public is hardly positive.
 Actually, the currently planned status of the WTC site is one giant advertisement for the success of terrorism.
 The whole facade could be partitioned to squares, which could hold either a  decent collection of static pictures  or - better yet - large digital screens, like those on the Times square. The best place for those advertisements would quite naturally be the places of impact of the aircrafts. Furthermore, the observation deck(s) on the rebuilt towers would imaginably become rather attractive location for various public gatherings.
 The best memorial for the victims of 9/11 and the ensuing wars would definitely be rebuilt Twin Towers, not two uglish pits.
 The Twins should be reconstructed (somehow), since the new testament speaks of rebirth.
 Twins just were integral part of the city. It's just too impractical not to rebuilt them (in some form), too costly. Or 9/11 itself was not enough (for us) - we have to cut ourselves even more. Even though we have computers and communicate through them, there are other means of communication. When the Twins were destroyed, New York was struck at its core, certain behavioral schemes were abolished. A city, a civilization is like a living organism. One cannot live with(out) fundamental organ(s) taken out.
 After WW2, whole cities were rebuilt.
 The Towers looked like a giant number 11. Built in the end of sixties and beginning of seventies, with some finishing touches added shortly thereafter, they were not exactly new. They felt down because they could not withstand the heat of fire, which spread rather quickly inside them. They were attacked on the 11th of September. 2001.
 Rebuilt ones would be no substitute for the original. You just cannot rebuild things.
. The omnipresent presentation of the Twins as symbols of America goes directly against this commandment, as would the reconstruction. 
