  "Gays in the US military." Religious tolerance : "In the past, gays and lesbians were not permitted in any of the armed forces in the West. Most countries have abandoned their anti-gay policies in recent years, as mental health professionals determined that a homosexual orientation is fixed, and unchosen, a normal and natural orientation for a minority of adults, and not a mental illness. Among the armies in the Western industrialized world, Austria, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Japan, The Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, and the UK allow gays and lesbians to serve freely."
 C. Dixon Osburn, who heads the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, a gay advocacy group in Washington, said in March 2007, "General Pace1s comments are outrageous, insensitive and disrespectful to the 65,000 lesbian and gay troops now serving in our armed forces. [...] As a Marine and a military leader, General Pace knows that prejudice should not dictate policy. It is inappropriate for the Chairman to condemn those who serve our country because of his own personal bias. He should immediately apologize for his remarks." [18] 
 A white female military officer was quoted in the book "Gays and Lesbians in the Military," as saying: "About moral choices, let's not let people who have had premarital sex or an affair be in the army either!!! Then there would be no one protecting our country. And bible bashers need to reread the section that says he without guilt should cast the first stone." [19] 
  Barry M. Goldwater. "Ban on Gays is Senseless Attempt to Stall the Inevitable"  - "The country and the military know that eventually the ban will be lifted. The only remaining questions are how much muck we will all be dragged through, and how many brave Americans like Tom Paniccia and Margarethe Cammermeyer will have their lives and careers destroyed in a senseless attempt to stall the inevitable." 
 Marine General Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a March 2007 interview with the Chicago Tribune, "I believe homosexual acts between two individuals are immoral and that we should not condone immoral acts." [20] 
 Elaine Donnelly, president of the non-profit Center for Military Readiness which supports continuing the ban: "The law respects the power of sexuality and the normal human desire for modesty in sexual matters." [21] 
  Cal Thomas. "Don't ask don't tell, and don't legitimize." Salt Lake City Tribune. October 15, 2009 : "The gays in the military and gay marriage issues are part of a broader attempt by liberals to restructure society. Social activists despise biblical morality (which heterosexuals could use a little more of, too), traditional values that have been proven to work when tried, and numerous other cultural mores. This is not an opinion. It is also not a secret."
