 Bilingual initiatives can be very costly. They require hiring bilingual teachers, creating bilingual curriculum, creating tests in the foreign language, and buying different text books for these students. All of this adds expenses to schools who's budgets are already stretched thin.  
  "Why Official English?" ProEnglish.org : "today, in segregated classrooms, so-called 'bilingual education' keeps immigrant children from learning English, by teaching them in foreign languages. And millions of people cannot find good-paying jobs, because they lack the ability to speak English with customers, co-workers or employers." 
 Immersion is a very effective strategy used in university programs, where college students are sent abroad and immersed in a language. Sometime, there is a requirement in these programs that students speak no English at all, and only the new language being learned. This is because immersion forces an individual, under high pressure, to learn the language quickly. English-only policies in schools follow this logic, teak kids English more quickly, and subsequently benefit them in their lives in the long-run.
 Too much responsibility is often placed on schools to accommodate children. It is the parent's responsibility to help their child learn English or to make sure that they are retaining their native language at the same time as they learn English.
  "Congress Should Prioritize English Learning, Not English-only." MALDEF on Opposing Views.com : "English Language Learners want to learn English but are too often hampered in their efforts to achieve full proficiency.  English-only and Official English laws do nothing constructive to advance the important goal of English proficiency. 
 In the 1974 case of Lau v. Nichols, the Supreme Court ruled that: "there is no equality of treatment merely by providing students with the same facilities, textbooks, teachers, and curriculum; for students who do not understand English are effectively foreclosed from any meaningful education" (U.S. Supreme Court, 414 U.S. 563) [5] 
 If young individuals are immersed in English at a young age, there is a significant risk that they will lose, or diminish, their first language. 
  James Vazins. "Boston students struggle with English-only rule. Many nonnatives quit the system." Boston Glob. April 7th, 2009 : "Students not fluent in English have floundered in Boston schools since voters approved a law change six years ago requiring school districts to teach them all subjects in English rather than their native tongue, according to a report being released tomorrow. [...] In one of the most striking findings, the study found that the high school dropout rate nearly doubled for students still learning to speak and write in English, according to the report by the Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and the Center for Collaborative Education."
