  USEnglish.org. "Why is Official English necessary?" : "Official English is common sense government. The designation of official English will eliminate the needless duplication of government services in multiple languages. It is not the responsibility of the government to provide services in the 322 different languages spoken in the United States. It is the responsibility of each individual to either learn English or to find a friend or family member to translate. The money formerly spent on multi-lingual services can instead provide immigrants with the assistance they really need-classes to teach them English."
  USEnglish.org. "Why is Official English necessary?" : "because official English is only a limitation on government, it does not affect the languages spoken in private businesses, religious services or private conversations."
 Official English only limit requirements on the federal government documents to provide documents in services in languages other than English. It would not limit states, private businesses, communities, nor families. 
 Eric Crafton - Nashville, Tenn., City Council - said in 2009: “English is under attack. The fact that making English our Government’s official language is even controversial should give us all pause." [6] 
 An overwhelming majority of US citizens already speaks English. For a major part of them English is a mother tongue. So, if there is to be one official language, English is clearly the most natural and logical choice. In addition, 30 U.S. states have already enacted laws making English their official language.
 The U.S. was founded by 13 British colonies. Both the US declaration of independence and US constitution are written in English. This itself make English the "de facto" official language of the United States. Why not make it the de jure official language?
 English is the official language of over 30 US states, a vast majority of %60. There have been no problems in adopting the provision in these states. Therefore, there should be no problems adopting it nationally.  
 The US and 20 of its constituent states (Alaska, Connecticut, Delaware, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Texas, Vermont, Washington, West Virginia) seem to have muddled along so far without any official national language. Linguist Geoffrey Pullum, in an essay entitled "Here come the linguistic fascists," points out that English is far from under threat in the United States, and argues that "making English the official language of the United States of America is about as urgently called for as making hotdogs the official food at baseball games." [7] 
 There should be no official national language. One of the great strengths of the United States is that we can experiment on a state-by-state basis. When one state does things one way, and a neighboring state does things the other way, it is much easier to see the advantages of doing things one way or the other. This allows each state to choose one way or the other based on objective evidence and results. And, indeed, 30 states have already opted to have English as their state's official language. While, some may disagree on this side with the decision of any one state to adopt official English, the state-by-state approach may still be considered superior to a national English policy.
 If English is made into the official language, but you don't actually change anything -- kind of like English is the official langauge of California, but the  California Department of Motor Vehicles  still prints the Driver License Handbook in at least 8 other languages -- then it's a nice symbolic guesture, but why bother?
 Official English is just symbolic. It probably will not change any policies, it's just meant to send a message. But, this message is highly charged and controversial, as it is often interpreted as exclusionary, anti-immigrant, and even racist. Such consequences usually make a symbolic gesture such as Official English a bad idea.
