  Martin Feldstein. "Defense Spending Would Be Great Stimulus". Wall Street Journal. December 24, 2008  - "As President-elect Barack Obama and his economic advisers recognize, countering a deep economic recession requires an increase in government spending to offset the sharp decline in consumer outlays and business investment that is now under way. Without that rise in government spending, the economic downturn would be deeper and longer. Although tax cuts for individuals and businesses can help, government spending will have to do the heavy lifting."
  Eugene Robinson. "Roll over the Republicans". Real Clear Politics. February 10, 2009  - "Begin with the most fundamental question: Does the U.S. economy desperately need a massive stimulus, or not? There are economists who doubt it's possible for the government to effectively stimulate an economy of such size and complexity. Those economists, however, are in the minority. [...] The most respected economic wise men and women of both parties believe a huge stimulus is needed quickly to keep a dire economic situation from sinking into catastrophe." 
  Barack Obama. "We Can't Afford to Wait". February 9, 2009  - "At [the] core [of the Recovery and Reinvestment Plan] is a very simple idea: to put Americans back to work doing the work America needs done. [...] The plan will save or create three to four million jobs over the next two years. But not just any jobs - jobs that meet the needs we've neglected for far too long and lay the groundwork for long-term economic growth: jobs fixing our schools; computerizing medical records to save costs and save lives; repairing our infrastructure; and investing in renewable energy to help us move toward energy independence. The plan also calls for immediate tax relief for 95 percent of American workers."
 The right set of spending, management, and supplemental action can ensure that the stimulus is effective. The stimulus package itself is only one part of the equation. Ensuring against no-bid contracts, enforcing transparency, and efficiently administrating the rapid expenditure of funds is very important. In addition, it is important to simultaneously shore up the financial system with a plan to fix the housing market and thaw the credit market. All these things must be done in concert in order for the stimulus to be effective.  
  Robert Higgs. "Instead of stimulus, do nothing - seriously". Christian Science Monitor. February 9, 2009  - "Hardly anyone [...] is asking the most important question: Should the federal government be doing any of this? [...] Federal intervention rests on the presumption that officials know how to manage the economy and will use this knowledge effectively. This presumption always had a shaky foundation, and we have recently witnessed even more compelling evidence that the government simply does not know what it's doing. The big bailout bill enacted last October; the Federal Reserve's massive, frantic lending for many different purposes; and now the huge stimulus package all look like wild flailing - doing something mainly for the sake of being seen to be doing something - and, of course, enriching politically connected interests in the process."
  Yaron Brook. "To Stimulate The Economy, Liberate It". Forbes. February 14th, 2008  - "we must first recognize that the key economic activity that causes growth is not consumer spending but production. [...] Economic growth means an increase in the amount of wealth that exists in a country--and all wealth must be produced. [...] The focus of today's stimulus packages on consumer spending is therefore completely backward. Consumption is a consequence of production. This fact is ignored by the Bush plan [and Obama plan], which attempts to achieve prosperity through $100 billion in deficit-spending. Though this might bring the appearance of prosperity, in the same way that an unemployed man appears prosperous if he goes on a shopping spree with his credit cards, the reality will be the opposite."
 Stimulus package spends money by first taxing it out of the economy or borrowing it through bonds. Either way, the money injected is not "new" money, but taken from the economy, so adds no new wealth to the economy.
 While many liberals claim that the New Deal helped stop the Great Depression, many other economists and historians argue that the New Deal only worsened the Great Depression by adding to the national debt.
