  Lawrence J. Korb. "The Costs of Don't Ask Don't Tell". Center for American Progress. March 2, 2009  - "Since 1994, the military’s 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy has resulted in the discharge of more than 13,000 military personnel across the services[1] including approximately 800 with skills deemed 'mission critical,' such as pilots, combat engineers, and linguists. These are the very specialties for which the military has faced personnel shortfalls in recent years."
 Soldiers should be judged on their performance not on their sexual orientation. "Don't ask, don't tell" completely ignores performance, judging and even discarding soldiers based on their entirely irrelevant sexual orientation. A good military should be a meritocracy, rewarding good achievement and ability. "Don't ask don't tell" fails to live up to this notion, and surely suffers in its quality as a result.
 In December 2007, 28 retired generals and admirals urged Congress to repeal the policy, citing evidence that 65,000 gay men and women are currently serving in the armed forces, and that there are over 1,000,000 gay veterans. [10]  Ridding the military of homosexuals would, therefore, seriously reduce the number of armed forces available to the US military and impair the United State's ability to project its foreign policy and national security interests.
  Bob Barr. "Don't Ask, Who Cares." The Wall Street Journal. June 13, 2007 : "The U.S. has fired over 11,000 people under the current policy, and in the process has lost over 1,000 service members with 'mission-critical skills,' including 58 Arabic linguists. Researchers at the UCLA School of Law have found that lifting the ban could increase the number of active-duty personnel by over 40,000. Because the military can't fill its slots [, it has lowered its standards, extended tours of duty and increased rotations, further hurting morale and readiness."
  "Don't Ask, Don't Tell, And Try Not To Be A Woman". Jezebel. June 23, 2008  - "Although this picture shows 1 female and 4 male former members of our Armed Forces — which is more or less the ratio of women to men in the U.S. military today — it is not the ratio of lesbians to gay men discharged from the military because of sexual orientation."
  Letter from the American Center for Military Readiness. March 3, 2009  - "When the 2008 [Military Times] survey asked how people would respond if homosexuals were allowed to serve openly, 10% said they would not re-enlist or extend their service, and an additional 14% said they would consider ending their careers. These responses from active duty members are not exact indicators, but they are significant, especially when major efforts are underway to increase the Army and Marine Corps. We cannot afford to lose almost a quarter of the volunteer force, especially among careerists in grades and skills that are not quickly or easily replaceable." 
  Anne Hull. "How 'Don't Tell' Translates". Washington Post. June 18, 2004  - "The Army says the discharged linguists were casualties of their own failure to meet a known policy. 'We have standards,' said Harvey Perritt, a spokesman for the U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command at Fort Monroe, Va. 'We have physical standards, academic standards. There's no difference between administering these standards and administering 'don't ask, don't tell.' The rules are the rules.'"
  Letter from the American Center for Military Readiness. March 3, 2009  - "Don't ask don't tell was formulated in response to President Clinton's direction to the secretary of defense to find a way to enable homosexuals who wish to serve to do so. The policy removed the question: 'are you homosexual?' from the uniformed services enlistment application form ('don't ask'); asserted that open admission of homosexuality or homosexual conduct were a basis for discharge ('don't tell'); and charged military leaders not to pursue suspected homosexuals without clear evidence of conduct or open admissions." 
