 Local failures have necessitated federal intervention to remedy issues like teachers teaching outside their areas of expertise, and complacency in the face of continually failing schools. [5]  Some local governments, notably New York State, have voiced support for NCLB provisions, arguing that local standards had failed to provide adequate oversight over special education, and that NCLB would allow longitudinal data to be more effectively used to monitor Adequate Yearly Progress, also known as AYP. [6] 
  "Fact Sheet on the Major Provisions of the Conference Report to H.R. 1, the No Child Left Behind Act". United States Department of Education  - "H.R. 1 will give local school officials serving rural schools and districts more flexibility and a greater say in how federal funds are used in their schools."
  Chester Finn Jr. "5 Myths About No Child Left Behind". Washington Post. March 30, 2008  - "1. No Child Left Behind is an unprecedented extension of federal control over schools. [...] But NCLB isn't compulsory. States that don't want to jump through its hoops are free to forgo their federal dollars. (Several, such as Utah, Nebraska and Virginia, came close to doing just that, but the lure of those funds helped them overcome their reservations.)"
  "The Impact of the No Child Left Behind Act on Student Achievement and Growth". Northwest Evaluation Association. April 2005  - "State-level tests tend to improve observed achievement on an independent measure, and therefore, increasing the number of grades in which state tests are given may improve achievement more."
 No Child Left Behind imposes many forms of federal regulation and standards over states and their education programs. This violates the right of states, in the US federal system, to control their own independent education programs. 
  Ryan, J. "The Perverse Incentives of No Child Left Behind Act." July 2, 2004  - "the Act unintentionally encourages states to lower their academic standards. [...] The requirement that an increasing percentage of students in every school achieve a certain test score each year is arbitrary and unrealistic, in that it establishes achievement goals without any reference to past achievement levels or rates of achievement growth. Many schools, including some that are considered effective, will be unable to meet these achievement targets. This will create pressure to make the targets easier to meet by dumbing down the tests or making scoring systems more generous. By this process, a law intended to raise academic standards may lower them."
 Because different states can administer their own standards, standards vary across states, which makes it difficult to compare how states are performing relative to one-another. 
 No Child Left Behind, by creating national and state authority over local and community schools, damages the relationship between these schools and their local communities. This undermines community relationships, trust, and accountability.
