  Barack Obama. "We Can't Afford to Wait". February 9, 2009  - "you may have heard some of the critics of our plan saying that it would create mostly government jobs. That's simply not true. More than 90 percent of these jobs will be in the private sector. More than 90 percent."
 While it may be true that some supporters of the stimulus have a hidden agenda to grow government, this is mere speculation, and to oppose the legislation merely on this basis would be to overlook the broader, legitimate arguments involved in the debate.
  Robert Kuttner. "Time to Think Big". American Prospect. February 10, 2009  - "Looking forward [beyond the stimulus], we need a very different sort of economy, one that restores a balanced form of capitalism. At the core of this change is a long-term increase in public outlay, investing in areas vital to economic growth and social decency. [...] An enhanced federal role, in turn, provides the moment to reclaim the public philosophy of activist government that effectively services people’s needs where market forces fail."
 The idea that government is "bad" and that any growth in government engendered by the stimulus is subsequently "bad" is false. Government governs for the people and by the people. Unless one argues that the people are bad, government must be good. See  Government is Good.com  for an expansion on this argument.
  Steven Pearlstein. "Wanted: Personal Economic Trainers. Apply at Capitol." Washington Post. February 6, 2009  - "And then there is Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), complaining in Wednesday's Wall Street Journal that of the 3 million jobs that the stimulus package might create or save, one in five will be government jobs, as if there is something inherently inferior or unsatisfactory about that. (Note to Coburn's political director: One in five workers in Oklahoma is employed by government.)" 
 The spending in the stimulus will go toward many government programs, growing them so that they become a constant burden on tax payers and constraint for free markets. None of this is desirable, and this is why tax cuts are a better alternative; it provides stimulus without growing government, and in fact, shrinking government.
