 "And Adam called his wife’s name Eve, because she was the mother of all living." (Genesis 3:20). "Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, and said, 'I have acquired a man from the LORD.'" (Genesis 4:1) "And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch." (Genesis 4:16) "'Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve the lineage of our father.'” So they made their father drink wine that night. And the firstborn went in and lay with her father, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose. It happened on the next day that the firstborn said to the younger, 'Indeed I lay with my father last night; let us make him drink wine tonight also, and you go in and lie with him, that we may preserve the lineage of our father.' Then they made their father drink wine that night also. And the younger arose and lay with him, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose. Thus both the daughters of Lot were with child by their father" (Genesis 19:32-36). 
  "Inbred obscurity: improving incest laws in the shadow of the "sexual family". Harvard Law Review. June 2006  - "Religion also does not provide a viable rationale for incest prohibitions. Based on current Establishment Clause doctrine, a predominant religious purpose would render incest prohibitions constitutionally invalid, 33 especially because those prohibitions trench on constitutionally protected activities such as marriage and sexual intimacy.34"
 "No one is to approach any close relative to have sexual relations. I am the Lord...Everyone who does any of these detestable things -- such persons must be cut off from their people" (Leviticus 18:6, 29). [12] 
 While it is true that there is a separation between church and state and that religion cannot play a direct role in the law on incest, this does not mean that it cannot be weighed for its significance in creating the moral foundations of modern society. Indeed, the moral beliefs of a public are relevant in considering what should be morally tolerable and morally intolerable under the law. Therefore, to the extent that the Bible (and other faiths) plays a role in modern moral thought, the Bible's condemnation of incest should favor a ban.  
