 Individuals elected to office in a representative democracy tend not to be demographically representative of their constituency. They tend to be wealthier and more educated, and are also more predominantly male as well as members of the majority race, ethnic group, and religion than a random sample would produce. They also tend to be concentrated in certain professions, such as lawyers. Elections by district may reduce, but not eliminate, those tendencies, in a segregated society. Direct democracy would be inherently representative, assuming universal suffrage (where everyone can vote).
 Politicians are the victims of many things: be it their selfish interest (or bias) which may result in rearing to corruption, or just the pressure that rich and well-organized interest groups exert to persuade the politician that it is in his electorate's interest to pass (or vote down) the legislature in a move which is in all actuality detrimental to the majority of his voters (see a book by Fareed Zakaria  Illiberal Democracy Home and Abroad ). That means that often the politicians do not represent the people of the electorate, and thus act in contradiction to democracy. Direct democracy places a check on these shortcomings.
 Another objection to direct democracy is that of practicality and efficiency. Deciding all or most matters of public importance by direct referendum is slow and expensive (especially in a large community), and can result in public apathy and voter fatigue, especially when repeatedly faced with the same questions or with questions which are unimportant to the voter. [4] 
  James Boyle. "The initiative and referendum: its folly, fallacies, and failure." (1912) : "The greatest of our American authorities Prof Oberholtzer says in the new edition 1911 of The Referendum in America that it will make officials timid shambling ineffective men."
  James Boyle. "The initiative and referendum: its folly, fallacies, and failure." (1912) : "the modern Initiative is far inferior in principle to the ancient Pure Democracy for the latter theoretically anyhow possessed the principle of majority rule.[...] The authority to formulate a law is equal to the power to pass it if the latter power does not include the right to change it or amend it before it is passed. Therefore under the Initiative and Referendum the majority 92 or 95 per cent find themselves in this predicament they must either accept the bill which the 8 per cent has drafted for them on its own motion and without consulting any other authority or proportion of citizens. The majority must either do this or they must succumb to Philosophic Anarchism, the absence of any Law except that of the individual will." 
  James Boyle. "The initiative and referendum: its folly, fallacies, and failure." (1912) : "An overwhelming objection to the system is that wherever it has been tried it has resulted in minority rule Even in Switzerland the most favorable State possible for the system Direct Legislation is always by minorities."
  James Boyle. "The initiative and referendum: its folly, fallacies, and failure." (1912) : "citizens take far greater interest the election of men than they do in the passage Laws All observers native and foreign are impressed with the apathy of voters to the propositions submitted to them." 
