 The risks involved in blood relatives having children are vastly overstated, normally by people that oppose incest for spurious “moral” reasons. First cousins, for example, are, according to a 2002 article in the New York Times, 93% likely to give birth to an entirely ordinary child, compared to roughly 96% for the general population. [9] 
  "Inbred obscurity: improving incest laws in the shadow of the "sexual family". Harvard Law Review. June 2006  - "The rationale based on genetics is also suspect under current law: even setting aside nonprocreative intimate relationships, in no other legal realm does the government criminally prohibit two people from having children because their offspring are more likely to inherit genetic defects.30 Even though the risks of birth defects among the most closely related family members are significant,31 eugenics on the basis of physical or mental deformity has long been repudiated."
  Joanna Grossman. "Should the law be kinder to 'kissin' cousins?". Find Law. April 8, 2002  - "More generally, scientific advances that enable doctors to screen for many potentially harmful genes may render general presumptions about genetic risks, like those embodied in marriage bans, inappropriate. When a particular individual can know his or her specific risk of passing on dangerous genes to children, how can a presumption as to the average person's general risk of doing so constitutionally be applied?" 
 Conclusively determining, beyond a reasonable doubt, that incest is the cause of a specific defect in the child of an incestuous couple is very difficult. This makes it difficult to base a ban on incest on the presumption that incest is the cause of defects. 
 This argument is a possible compromise, which allows for the legalization of consensual adult incest generally, but a ban on incestuous reproduction. 
 It is well known that the risks involved in blood relatives procreating are enormous. Deformities are common and genetic disorders are much more likely than in the population at large. The state has a compelling interest in preventing such suffering and the practice of incest that causes it. It is compassionate to the deformed/disordered child, the parents that must suffer through the experience, and the society that must provide for the extra health requirements of such a child.  
 The children of incestuous parents are much more likely to see incest as acceptable and to, therefore, engage in incest themselves. The problem with this is that second-generation incest is even more likely to involve medical and genetic problems. Third-generation incest is even more risky, and so on. Therefore, incest is an unsustainable social model.
 It is true that risks are run by other reproducing couples in society. But the magnitude of the risk is for the most part much smaller than those involved in incestuous reproduction.
 The existence of other couples that run genetic risks is an argument against legalizing incestuous relationships: the medical system already has enough trouble dealing with the offspring created by couples with conditions society doesn’t condemn. Why add more ill offspring on top of this, and for the condemned practice of incest?
 Because the children of incest couples are more likely to suffer from illness and deformity, they are more likely to become a burden on the health system and thus the taxpayers of a society. The state has a compelling interest in protecting other members of society from such a burden. 
 The offspring of incest often suffer from widespread rejection or mistreatment in society. On the playground, children of incest are likely to be bullied. With attitudes on incest unlikely to change, it is better that a ban help prevent such unfair episodes from occurring in the first place.
 The offspring of incestuous couples have a difficult time understanding and identifying with their ancestry. This leads to unanswerable questions such as "who am I?", which often requires therapy to resolve. 
