  Amnesty International. The International Criminal Court, Fact Sheet  - "it will have a much wider jurisdiction than existing ad hoc tribunals. For example, the work of the International Criminal Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda have been limited to crimes committed in a particular territory, while crimes committed in other territories have not been addressed"
  Amnesty International. The International Criminal Court, Fact Sheet  - "the Statute [of the ICC] contains advanced provisions for the protection of victims from retraumatization, and the Court may order a convicted person to provide reparation, in the form of compensation, restitution, rehabilitation, satisfaction, guarantees of non-repetition and any other type of reparation the Court deems appropriate."
  Ian Williams. "Immune from prosecution". Salon. 16 June 2000  - "The ICC won't have retroactive effect, so it will only be able to try future criminals, and only after 60 countries have ratified it." 

  John R. Bolton. "The United States and the International Criminal Court". Remarks to the Federalist Society. 14 Nov. 2002  - "As to the former, the ICC’s authority is vague and excessively elastic, and the Court’s discretion ranges far beyond normal or acceptable judicial responsibilities, giving it broad and unacceptable powers of interpretation that are essentially political and legislative in nature. This is most emphatically not a Court of limited jurisdiction. Crimes can be added subsequently that go beyond those included in the Rome Statute. Parties to the Statute are subject to these subsequently-added crimes only if they affirmatively accept them, but the Statute purports automatically to bind non-parties, such as the United States, to any such new crimes. It is neither reasonable nor fair that these crimes would apply to a greater extent to states that have not agreed to the terms of the Rome Statute than to those that have."
  Gary T. Dempsey. "Reasonable Doubt: The Case Against the Proposed International Criminal Court". CATO Institute. 16 July 1998  - "the court threatens to diminish America's sovereignty, produce arbitrary and highly politicized "justice," and grow into a jurisdictional leviathan. Already some supporters of the proposed court want to give it the authority to prosecute drug trafficking as well as such vague offenses as "serious threats to the environment" and "committing outrages on personal dignity." Even if such expansive authority is not given to the ICC initially, the potential for jurisdictional creep is considerable and worrisome." 

