  David Archard. Sexual consent. Limits of Consensuality" (Book). 1997  - "The problem with regarding such alleged harms [to the family] as supplying a sufficient condemnation of incest are two fold. First, it is possible to conceive of practices or sets of circumstances which do the same sorts and amounts of damage to the family but which do not appear to be subject to the same degree of extreme moral criticism. Consider, for example, intra-familial violence, parental subscription to very rigid or fundamental religious views, extreme poverty, ready toleration of and participation in criminality, excessive parental coldness or emotional indifference, and so on." [4] 
  David Archard. Sexual consent. Limits of Consensuality" (Book). 1997  - "The problem with regarding such alleged harms as supplying a sufficient condemnation of incest are twofold. [...] Second, we are left with the cases of siblings separated at or shortly after birth who, on being reunited, experience overpowering feelings of mutual attraction which may lead them into sexual intimacy. Such cases (and there are very occasional cases of parent-child incest along the same lines) are rare but well documented. It does not seem that any straightforward appeal to the damage that these incestuous relationships will or might do to the institution of the family is open to those who insist that, nevertheless, they remain deeply immoral." [5] 
 It is absurd to suggest that the existence of incestuous couples undermines the wider family model. The vast majority of families would experience none of the issues important to the few people this issue affects.
 Marriage is treated only as a cut-and-dry contract under the law. Under the law, therefore, incest cannot violate the "sanctity" of marriage. And, it certainly does not violate any marriage contracts.
  "Inbred obscurity: improving incest laws in the shadow of the "sexual family". Harvard Law Review. June 2006 : "the anthropological rationale put forward most famously by Professor Claude Lévi-Strauss — that incest prohibitions are a necessary mechanism for building society by forcing people to create alliances outside of narrow family groups — seems entirely inadequate as a reason to prohibit consensual relationships in a modern world whose social integration is not plausibly threatened by the few people who might choose to align themselves with family members."
 In some cases where incestuous couples get married, they are afforded protections due to their "marital status", without which they would be convicted of the "crime" of incest. This is strange and confusing.
 The Ohio Supreme Court ruled in a 2007 incest case: "The state has a legitimate interest in prohibiting incestuous relations and in protecting the family unit and family relationships." [6]  Incest undermines these traditional, nurturing relationships by opening the door to sexual tensions, jealousies, and animosities.  
 Incest bans allow children and family members to interact in ordinary and intimate ways (ie, sitting on laps, hugging, kissing on the cheeck) without raising undue suspicions or concerns. It provides a protective line that allows for ordinary intimacy, but ensures it doesn't go too far. [7] 
 The idea that family life is totally private is wrong: the government intervenes frequently in family life when there is a compelling interest to do so: when parents take drugs or neglect or abuse their children, or when people are violent. The government, therefore, has the right to intervene in families to stop incest, which is demonstrated to be damaging and hazardous.
 Professor Claude Lévi-Strauss argues that an incest prohibition is a necessary mechanism for building society by forcing people to form alliances outside of narrow family groups. [8] 
