 Allowing recession will enable stronger economic recovery
 Stimulus may not work; unacceptable gamble with $1 trillion
 Fear-mongering on consequences of no US stimulus is wrong
 A majority of Americans supported Obama's stimulus
 Citizens voted for change reflected in 2009 US stimulus
 American public is ambivalent about 2009 US stimulus plan
 Spending provides more economic stimulus than tax cuts
 Americans voted for progressive thinking of 2009 US stimulus
 Tax cuts provide better economic stimulus than spending
 Arts subsidies benefit mostly the wealthy and elite
Subsidized art will be available to all classes.
Government subsidies will be inefficiently wasted on "artsy" flops.
There are considerable economic benefits to subsidising the arts.
Subsidies always carry a danger of interference and distortion in art.
People will pay for good art; subsidies are unnecessary.
 The arts can survive on profits and business models alone
Without subsidy, many of the arts would not survive
Subsidies help foster newer more innovative forms of art.
Free and cheap access to the arts is crucial for education.
Most teachers are honest and will not cheat the system under NCLB.
 No Child Left Behind motivates teachers to cheat.
 There is strong public support for No Child Left Behind
 NCLB funds faith-based orgs for supplemental education
NCLB sets the conditions for the privatization of "failing" schools.
No Child Left Behind violates separation of church and state.
There is nothing wrong with military recruiting.
 Facilitating military recruitment through NCLB is wrong
NCLB helps narrow the achievement gap for minorities.
Standardized tests may have cultural biases.
No Child Left Behind lacks non-English tests.
No Child Left Behind effectively penalizes diversity in schools.
 NCLB has succeeded in improving test scores
Standardized tests ensures students learn essential information.
Standardized test info is more essential than music and arts.
NCLB tests what is testable; art and music is not testable.
 Schools should teach test-information as well as arts etc
Standards enables students to integrate well into new schools.
 NCLB encountered some problems due to low funding
 No Child Left Behind motivates unfortunate "teaching to the test":
 No Child Left Behind over-emphasizes math and reading:
No Child Left Behind does not inspire a love of learning.
 NCLB raises standards and testing without improving education
 No-Child-Left-Behind detracts from the education of the gifted.
NCLB gets teachers to over-focus on those just below passing
No Child Left Behind increases dropout rates.
 No Child Left Behind offers valuable measure of student progress
Standardized testing sets useful baseline achievement standards.
 Standardized tests poorly measure real student learning
NCLB testing wrongly assumes all children are the same.
 NCLF does not track progress of individual students
NCLB testing helps reveal and change failing teaching methods.
 No Child Left Behind fosters accountability in public schools
NCLB has safeguards for schools that are failing despite proficiency.
 No Child Left Behind draws, keeps, motivates good teachers
 NCLB standardized tests are a poor measure of school performance
 No Child Left Behind reveal nothing new about school performance
Teachers are not necessarily to blame for poor student performance.
 No Child Left Behind does nothing to improve teachers
 NCLB damages teacher morale, future of profession
NCLB sets overly restrictive qualifications for teaching.
 NCLB counter-productively punishes teachers/schools
 NCLB ridgedly punishes schools that are progressing, albeit slowly
Teachers want to be held accountable, just not to tests.
NCLB causes the retention of students in grades to avoid tests.
NCLB causes schools to turn-away most needy students.
NCLB wrongly cuts funding to the most needy, under-performing schools.
NCLB demands too much from schools with worst students, least funding.
 NCLB ensures disabled students are not left behind
No Child Left Behind subjects disabled to same test standards.
 No Child Left Behind offers choice to leave failing schools
 No Child Left Behind encourages parents to engage more actively
School choice in NCLB will make bad schools worse.
Good not "failing" students students will leave under NCLB.
"Failing" schools will not accept "failing" students.
Statewide standards are an improvement over major local failures:
 No Child Left Behind offers flexibility at state, local level
 States are free to opt out of No Child Left Behind
 NCLB testing is done more widely with greater effect
No Child Left Behind exerts too much federal power over states.
 No Child Left Behind encourages states to set low standards
 Education standards between states are inconsistent under NCLB
NCLB damages relationship/accountability of schools to community.
What about African-Americans?
 "Don't ask don't tell makes gays second class citizens
 Don't ask don't tell wrongly forces gay servicemen to lie
 Forcing secrecy on gay troops muffles their identity
 "Don't ask don't tell" punishes citizens coming-out of closet]
 "Don't ask don't tell is inconsistent with conservative ideals
 Testing gay rights in the military wrongly jeopardizes efficacy
 Gays do not have a "right" to military service
 Citizens decide if gays should be allowed to protect them
 "Don't ask don't tell" has been upheld in court
 "Don't ask don't tell" forbids homosexual acts, not gays
 "Don't ask don't tell" costs the military needed soldiers
 Troops should be judged on performance, not orientation
 Number of gays in military makes ban unwise
 Don't ask don't tell harms troop retention
 "Don't ask don't tell" fosters discrimination against women
 Gays in the military undermine recruiting/retention of opponents
 Gays are only discharged for willfully breaking policy
 "Don't ask don't tell" does not actively pursue gays
 Military gay ban is analogous to ban on blacks and women
Race and gender are not comparable to gays in the military.
 Privacy issues with gays in the military can be resolved
 Gays held to same decency standards as others in military
 Most gays will remain private after military ban is lifted
 Gays in the military impinge privacy rights of other troops
 Protecting privacy with gays in the military is impractical
 Military opinion has shifted, accepting gays
 Many US military leaders favor gays serving openly
 Most members of US military support ban on gays
 Gays do not undermine military readiness
 Rationale for military ban on gays is a shifting target
 "Don't ask don't tell is exploited by troops to avoid combat
 "Don't ask don't tell" puts commanders in compromising position
Unhealthy homosexuality undermines military readiness
Gays in the military would harm military leadership.
 Military should not end "don't ask don't tell" during war
 Military should not end "don't ask don't tell" during war
 Abandoning "don't ask don't tell" will decrease violence against gays
"Don't ask don't tell" keeps orientation secret, protects gays.
 "Don't ask don't tell insults and traumatizes gay troops
 "Don't ask don't tell" damages gay troop relationships
 "Don't ask don't tell" softened military policy on gays
There are good reasons for servicemen to keep sexual orientation secret.
Commanders/officers also cannot ask about orientation.
 "Don't ask don't tell" costs military gay recruits
 "Don't ask don't tell" is not harming recruiting
 American pubic opinion favors gays in the military
 Military opinion on gays behind public opinion
 Gay military service is not widely accepted in US
 Gays in military more popular because opponents being bashed
 "Don't ask don't tell" has been very costly in dollars
Costs of DADT are justified to uphold military efficacy.
Gays in the military would be costly in recruiting/retention.
 Troops should be judged on ability, not sexual orientation
 Gays that keep personal lives private are compatible with military
 Gay troops have served with distinction and honor
 Homosexuality is incompatible with military culture and service
 Homosexuality is no choice, don't ban it in military
 Gays make an immoral choice the military need not tolerate
 "Don't ask don't tell" invites hearsay accusations
"Don't ask don't tell" requires clear proof for discharges.
 Gays are natural not immoral, should be accepted in armies
 Individual prejudice should not drive military policy
 If "immoral" gays banned from military, ban adulterers too
 Gays in military inevitable; lift ban sooner than later
 US military should not condone immoral homosexuality
 "Don't ask don't tell" maintains modest sexual values
 "Don't ask don't tell" preserves US military values
 Gay soldiers do not undermine unit morale and cohesion
 "Don't ask don't tell" undermines troop morale and unit cohesion
 Professional troops can work with gays and focus on mission
It would strenghten relations
 Armies globally show viability of gays serving openly
 Gays in the military undermine unit cohesion and morale
Minority of troop discomfort with gays is enough to damage cohesion.
 Gays in the military increase sex-based favoritism
 Gay activism in military undermines professionalism
 "Don't ask don't tell" was stepping stone to gays in military
"Don't ask don't tell" is a necessary compromise in a divided country.
Most countries have an official language.
No official language makes US unique internationally.
 The English language is under threat in America
 English is not under threat nor needing protection
 Bilingual initiatives costly; official English cheaper
 Bilingual programs allow students to get by w/o learning English
English only in schools is effective language immersion.
Parents responsible for child's language acquisition/retention.
 English-only policies do not help teach English
 English-only in schools disadvantages non-native students
 Official English impairs retention of first language
 English-only policies increase non-native dropout rates
 Impractical/expensive for govt to cater to multiple languages
 Official English only limits govt, not private language-use
Official English only limits federal govt, not others.
Official English should be non-controversial.
English is the most widely spoken language in the US.
English has been used officially in US historically.
English is the official language of over 30 us States.
US language policy is working fine; why create official language?
Language policies should be state-by-state, not national.
Official language probably won't change any policies.
Official English is just symbolic.
 Official English aids American assimilation
 Official English unites Americans around a common language
All US citizens should be able to speak English.
 "Official English" does not mean "English only"
Official English has nothing to do with discrimination.
Suggesting learning English is too hard for some is racist.
Choice exists to learn language; Official English not discrimination.
Too many languages for right to govt services in own language.
 American unity never rested on unity of language
 Imposing official language often undermines national unity
Some countries do very well with many official languages.
 Official English discriminates against non-English speakers
 Official English is driven by anti-immigrant and racist sentiments
 Official English offends idea of American diversity
 Official English degrades image of other languages
 Official English violates US first amendment
 US official language violates equal protection in court
 Public opinion favors English as the official language
Majority should not oppress minority non-English speakers.
 Official English encourages immigrants to learn language and succeed
15m Americans don't speak English; more incentives needed.
 Incentive to learn English exists w/o making it official language
 Immigrants want to learn English, but not enough classes
Official language key to using govt services.
Official English has exceptions for safety, health, etc.
Non-English driver will not be able to read road-signs.
 Official English is key to democratic participation
 English-only in workplace protects businesses from lawsuits
 English-only laws can be a public safety/health hazard
 Official English undermines benefits of linguistic diversity
Official English limits diplomatic benefits of linguistic diversity.
Risks of geoengineering smaller than risks of climate change.
Geoengineering is temporary intervention to buy time.
Geoengineering can be gradually tested and implemented.
Geoengineering risks can be tested, corrected, avoided.
Many geoengineering approaches are harmless like painting roofs.
Technology advances help long-term safety of geoengineering.
 Geoengineering may result in unexpected consequences
 Starting then stopping geoengineering would accelerate warming
Human error could cause devastating impacts with geoengineering.
 Consequences of geoengineering could be worse than climate change
The effects of geoengineering may be irreversible.
 Geoengineering can effectively fight climate change
 Geoengineering is one part of larger climate fight
 Geoengineering gives time and optimism to climate fight
 Geoengineering ideas can help scare world into climate action
Many geoengineering solutions cut atmospheric greenhouse gases.
 Geoengineering only masks problem of CO2 emissions
 Geoengineering will reduce incentive to cut emissions
 Geogengineering will not curb sea level rise
 Better ways to fight climate change than geoengineering
Experts and scientists would conduct geoengineering.
 Risky to involve private companies in geoengineering
 Geoengineering can be very cheap
Geoengineering will create jobs.
 Geoengineering is too costly
The effects of geoengineering would be expensive.
International community will accept necessity of geoengineering.
Many geoengineering approaches are innocuous/non-controversial.
 Effects of geoengineering could cause international conflict
Knowbody has the right to decide on geoengineering.
 Geoengineering technologies may be used for military purposes
 World is already geoengineering Earth on mass scale
Geoengineering solutions often mimic natural mechanisms.
Geoengineering comes from human hubris; let mother nature work
 Geoengineering technologies may be used for military purposes
 Geoengineering is important to research, keep on table
Many green orgs and scientists support geoengineering option.
Geoengineering tests/consequences distract from other problems.
Religious institutions are a major driver of war.
Problems of religious institutions favors, by default, atheism.
Communism has nothing to do with atheism.
"Communism is very closely linked to Atheism"
"Atheists have also had wars"
Replace "communism" with "theocracy"
The claim that the Nazi government was repressive of religion
Religion has helped people better themselves and world.
Acts of religious institutions are irrelevant to faith and atheism.
Just because some wars have happened in the name of religion does not mean that all people who follow the religion can be tarnished by the same brush.
When atheists criticise religions for the largely negative impact atheism has had on society, they are overlooking their own negative impact.
Communism is very closely linked to Atheism.
Atheists criticise religious people for evangelising and "attempting to convert people", however, they do the same.
Atheists have also had wars.
All humans are imperfect.
Reality and the laws of nature are independent of man and faith.
If you believe in God, then you reject reason.
All victors unfortunately believe that God is on their side.
Religious Dogma provides a Haven for Social Ignorance.
 We no longer need God.
Religion gives people something outside of themselves to live for.
Regarding the atheists’ premise “If you believe in God, then you reject reason.”
Religious Dogma provides a Repository for Social Wisdom
Whether God exists or not, it is clear that mankind desperately needs him.
People who believe in God do not do so because they want to be lazy.
Drugs are bad for athletes and take away from the purpose of sport.
Legalizing performance-enhancing drugs enables monitoring them.
Twin Towers were a symbol of peace and prosperity.
The fact that the Twin Towers weren't rebuilt is a symbol of defeat of the american way of life.
The facade of Twin Towers would be an excellent place for various peaceful artwork.
Memorial for the victims.
The Bible speaks of rebirth.
Practical aspects.
There are many historical examples of reconstruction.
Old memories, old symbols. What's gone, is gone.
Twins were one and only.
The Bible (one of ten commandments) says don't substitute god with symbols
The price of reconstruction would be like pool in a sea.
There are no unique harms.
Instant celebrities.
Corporate profit motive.
Revenues from reality shows can be used for good purposes.
Not all reality shows are centered around sex and violence.
Deterrence.
Reality shows generate revenues.
Orwellian future.
Surveillance already exists - and for good reasons.
Reality shows were designed to show stereotypes.
Reality shows bring taboos into spotlight.
Amusement is a purpose of television.
Free choice.
Low-quality amusement.
Reality shows are immoral.
Watching reality shows is immoral.
TV shows merely reflect society's demands.
Free choice.
No control.
Scripted shows are further from reality.
It is irrational to say that God doesn't exist.
There is good evidence and arguments for God's existence.
 Religion explains origin of universe; science cannot
God's existence does not need to be proven.
God is the only rational explanation of the existence of the Universe.
God is the uncaused first cause.
God does not exist.
There are no contradictions in the original text of the Bible.
In this debate, we're defining the Bible as the Old Testament from Genesis to Malachi and the New Testament from Matthew to Revelation.
The fulfillment of numerous Biblical prophecies proves that the Bible is inspired by God.
See http://www.bibleevidences.com/
Please note that neither the above link nor any others on this debate are spam, as our opponents stated.
Please take note also that the biblical prophecies were NOT intended as poetry, as the con debaters have suggested.
No Biblical prophecies have so far failed to come true.
The prophecies relating to Israel and the Messiah were obviously seen at the time to be relating to Israel and the Messiah.
The messianic prophecies can also be used to demonstrate that Biblical prophecies are not self-fulfilling.
Biblical prophecy is of a superior degree of accuracy to predictions from non- canonical sources.
The fulfillment of Biblical prophecies has been verified in many cases by external, secular, and neutral sources.
The Bible implies to the modern reader that Jesus knew the true shape of the Earth, a fact that none of his contemporaries had guessed.
The Genesis account of creation describes the same order of events of the creation of the Earth as modern science does, a remarkable and peerless achievement when compared to the haphazard guesses of other creation stories written in that era of history.
That the Earth is a sphere-like geoid is a well established, scientific fact.
For a lengthier explanation of the correlation of the Genesis account of Creation with the order of arrivals of species suggested by modern scientists, read the first chapter of Dr E.K Victor Pearce's book "Evidence for Truth: Science".
The Bible text is unchanging.
The Bible is not Chinese whispers,
Banning plastic bags would be good for the environment.
We still need something to put our shopping in.
Charging for plastic bags would deter people from using them in large amounts.
That wouldn't do anything to help the environment.
It is not fair for supermarket chains to profit from something they get for free.
There is an easy, practical replacement for plastic bags.
Plastic bags have so many practical uses.
Distance learning models fail to enable face-to-face human instruction
Communicating via computers undermines interpersonal skills
Technological gadgets are relied on at the cost of theoretical pretexts
There is a negative relationship between computer-use and learning
Computers and Internet offer too many distractions from real learning
There is no clear correlation between technology and test scores
Teaching technologies cuts into the opportunity to teach core values and competencies
Communicating via computers undermines interpersonal skill development
Technology allows for greater independent learning.
Technology enables a more interactive learning environment
Technology allows for the creation of superior knowledge.
Technology does not benefit education in the third world
Technology improves third-world access to knowledge and learning
Teachers should be determining the role of technology in education, not profit interest groups
Technology adds to the cost of education
Technology reduces the cost of education
Technology is merely a tool facilitating education
Technology adds little to the fundamentals of teacher-student interaction
Improving teaching methods is more important to education than adding technology
Technology allows for the creation of superior knowledge
Technology can enable a more holistic presentation of knowledge than teachers alone are capable of providing:
As NATO has to take make all decisions unanimously, any future enlargement would decrease the likelihood of consensus 
The United Nations (UN) should already provide the needed security guarantees for non-NATO countries.
No one is going to be forced to have a covenant marriage, but it should be available to people as a choice.
If covenant marriage is given legal status, it will rapidly become a forced norm.
Covenant marriage might eliminate the problem of X husbands abusing their former spouses.
Abusive marriages may be prolonged by covenant marriages.
Passage of no-fault divorce laws resulted in an onslaught of divorce and a breakdown of the American family, and covenant marriages can help resolve this.
Covenant marriage laws are weak.
Covenant marriages are good for children because the make divorces less likely, and divorces are bad for children.
Covenant marriages force families in conflict to stay together, which has the potential to harm children more than divorce.
 Spreading democracy and "peace" is used as a pretext for war
Lebanon is not a liberal democracy according to Freedom House in its 2006 report
Israel is an established democracy. Lebanon has had a democratic system since its independence.
 The act of voting itself does not pacify people
Yugoslavia was not a true democracy. 
Slobodan Milosevic, the leader of Serbia, won several elections. 
Alberto Fujimori had made an auto-coup in 1992 and took on dictatorial powers.
Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori and the Ecuadorian President were democratically elected.
 Power kills; absolute power kills absolutely
 Democracy promotes harmonious and cooperative inter-state relations
 Democracies share democratic values that help maintain peace
 Democracies are peaceful only when their interests coincide
 Peace by force is actually what allows peace between democracies
 Powerful democracies are frequently aggressive and violent
 Democracies are quick to mobilize forces
 Democracies attack non-democracies, undermining pacifism myth
 Ethnic voting in Democracies often stokes ethnic violence
There were no elections in Eritrea before the war.
Both countries were technically democracies
Democracies are founded on similar principles so they should not go to war.
 Democratic peace theory is insignificant
Democratic peace applies to liberal democracies, which do not war.
 Democracies better resolve disagreement without resorting to violence
 The desire to get re-elected constrains war-making
 Democracies do not externalize their conflict resolution processes
 There are few checks on the foreign policies of elected executives
There are many contradictions in the Qur'an.
The god described in the Qur'an seems not to care much at all about ethics.
Coca chewing has economic benefit of increased productivity.
Coca eradication harms economy and poor farmers.
 Coca chewing and use are inviolable Andean traditions
Coca has spiritual value to indigenous Andeans.
Banning coca chewing violates indigenous rights.
 Coca chewing fosters social cohesion
Coca chewing pre-dates cocaine, shouldn't bundled.
Coca chewing in the Andes is like coffee in the West.
Coca chewing for cultural, not medical, reasons is unjust.
Tradition of coca consumption is a poor argument.
Coca is culturally popular due to broad cocaine production.
 Coca in its natural state is not a narcotic
Coca is not cocaine.
 Coca chewing is milder than caffeine, nicotine, etc
Coca consumption is most akin to caffeine use.
Component parts of other drugs aren't banned.
Coca has no negative health effects.
Chewing coca offers an energy boost.
Chewing coca has therapeutic value for various ailments.
Coca chewing can help relieve hunger, fight obesity.
Coca chewing is a habit not an addiction.
Coca is narcotic because cocaine can be readily extracted.
Coca cannot be disassociated with cocaine.
Cocaine is most produced where coca is legal.
Coca chewing is bad for human health.
Coca is not like caffeine/nicotine due to alternative use.
Coca yes, cocaine no is a workable policy.
If coca legal, farmers will change from illegal cocaine.
Wrong to ban local coca to prevent foreign cocaine consumption.
All South American states support indigenous right to coca.
Coca production can be monitored/limited to hedge cocaine.
Coca is chewed by millions; ban is just impossible.
Cocaine producers, not coca producers, should be targeted.
 Coca can be used in a variety of products
Coca can be used as a local anesthetic.
Ineffective eradication efforts suffer from "balloon effect."
Balloon effect occurs because some are weak on eradication.
Social network profiles are highly relevant to an applicant's merit for admissions:
Access to more information about candidates makes judgements more accurate and thus more fair overall.
Admish.com is a social networking site for college students and admissions officers.
Admissions officers that search profiles put those without access at a disadvantage.
Admissions officers should not "snoop" around on profiles that are mostly irrelevant to the application process:
Consent should be required from an applicant for an admissions officer to check out a profile:
 Social networking sites provide employers a true impression of a candidate.
Facebook can be used very effectively by candidates to showcase themselves to employers:
Companies have Facebook profiles that benefit job-seekers, making the trade-off acceptable for employers to seek information about candidates on these sites.
Parents should try to engage with children on social networking sites.
Parents should be allowed to monitor their children's profiles to protect against child predators.
Parents should monitor their children's profiles to check against "cyber-bullies".
Encouraging proper cyber behavior is part of a modern education.
Trying to regulate children will actually make them more rebellious:
Articles arguing this point:
Universities have the right to look at profiles that are based on university emails:
Administrators should not make charges based on information obtained from social-networking profiles:
Members of social networking sites have significant powers to limit outsider access:
Public viewage has a positive moderating effect on individual contact on and off-line.
Privacy is a very important element of the social contract, and helps foster individuality and free expression, but is undermined by the extent of access of these groups.
The recent trend of ‘ecotourism’ can provide benefits to serious research
"Ecotourism" is unsustainable, given the lack (apart from in Australia) of an accepted system of accreditation:
Many hotels are part of large international chains, choosing to exploit local labour purely because it is cheap.
The numbers of tourists will continue to rise due to cheaper travel and greater access to previously closed countries anyway
The increased size of the industry is currently unsustainable:
Tourism increases income to a particular area or country
Dependence on tourism creates risks:
Hotel tourism industries are often anti-competitive:
There is a longstanding didactic tradition within tourism, which widens cultural knowledge and understanding across areas.
Tourism demands that an area conform to a certain stereotyped image, often preventing modernisation or development, or requiring the local inhabitants to make a caricature of their own culture.
Geographically separating tourism related buildings and older buildings can enable conservation:
Ancient monuments and heritage sites are damaged by influxes of people, traffic, pollution:
The government should not be spending heavily domestically.
 Increasing funding for Health care in America is a top priority
A lot of wasteful spending can be cut easily:
US budget deficits are the cause of the falling value of the dollar, a major problem:
 Deficit spending is economically unhealthy in the long run
 Deficit spending strengthens US exports by making them less expensive abroad.
 The US retiring baby-boomer problem makes it important to pay down the national debt
The problem wasn’t huge when the Baby Boomers were zero to 20, so why when they’re 70 to 90?"
"The relevant number is what’s called the dependency ratio of working people to population.
"Any fiscal problem that might arise in caring for the elderly "boomers" has already been paid for, by the payroll tax rise of 1983, designed for this purpose."
US debt to foreign governments is problematic.
China and other foreign-owners of US debt have little interest in making sharp moves out of the dollar:
It is more important to protect people’s health than to protect businesses.
A smoking ban would drive many bars and restaurants out of business.
Many workers can't simply quite an unhealthy, smoky work environment.
Workers can choose to work at non-smoking institutions.
Smoky work environments are not different that other harmful lines of work.
Is it wrong to say that people choose to smoke passively.
People can leave smoking areas to avoid harm.
The demand for non-smoking bars has been low.
Workers are free to choose to quit a smoky, unhealthy working environment.
A smoking ban will cause people to smoke less overall.
Banning smoking in public would cause people to smoke more at home.
A ban will get rid of the odor left by cigarette smoke.
Not all non-smokers find the smell of tobacco smoke unappealing.
Public smoking ban protects health of non-smokers.
Public smoking ban protects rights of non-smokers.
Smokers can/should smoke in private places, not in public.
Only 15% of the smoke is consumed by the smoker.
If you dont like smoking or smokers then just leave.
A smoking ban in public places alienates smokers and incentivizes quiting.
Consumption drops thanks to the ban.
The government shouldn't play the role of Big Brother with a smoking ban.
Majority of Europeans support ban on smoking in public place.
Fines and penalties can ensure businesses comply with a ban.
It is impossible to police a ban in many public places.
It is unreasonable.
Banning adult incest is analogous to banning homosexuality.
 Legal gay marriage sets precedent for incest marriage
Homosexuality is more benign than incest on the family.
Incestuous relationships are more prone to abuse than homosexual ones.
Legalization would not increase incest.
Legalization would approve incest and increase it.
 Legality of incest cannot rely on whether couples reproduce
Sex is for pleasure as much as reproduction; incest is OK.
Sex is for reproduction; incest cannot be only about sex.
 Incestuous couples love one another the same as other couples
Sense of immorality undermines the "love" between incest couples.
 Evolutionary emotions against incest don't make it immoral
 That incest is "unnatural" does not make it immoral
Incest is found in the animal kingdom, so is natural.
 We all descend from common relatives, so all sex is "incest"
 Incest wrongly impairs natural human evolutionary progress
 Incest taboo is due to evolutionary inclination for variation
 Many things are bad for the family, but not banned like incest
 Adult incest can occur after family years
Incest does not affect other families.
 Marriage is a contract with little sanctity for incest to violate
 Incest ban is inappropriate tool
 Confusing laws for married incestuous couples show flaws of ban
  Incest undermines the family and its nurturing relationships
Incest laws enable appropriate family intimacy without suspicion.
The state often intervenes in family affairs; incest ban OK.
Incest can seclude people within their family network.
 Bible supports incest and embraces its practice
 Religion should have no role in incest law
 Bible condemns incest, supports its moral condemnation
Religion's impact on morals must be considered in incest ban.
 Risks for children of incest are tolerably low
 Hereditary risk of incest are same as some other couples
 Genetic screening undermines "risk" argument against incest
Incest is not easily determined as cause of defect.
 Incestuous relationships could be legal, but ban reproduction
 Children of incest are at greater risk of disorders
 Inbreeding is increasingly risky and unsustainable over time
Incest is more dangerous than other at-risk reproduction.
Legal incest would add risks on top of other risky mating.
 Children of incest are a greater burden on society/taxpayers
Incest offspring suffer from social/moral rejection.
Incest offspring suffer from confusion about their identity.
 Outlawing incest opens slippery slope to other prohibitions
 Legal incest opens slippery slope to legalizing other behavior
 Incest has same potential for power-abuse as other relationships
Incest law should not be framed by bad-apple scenarios.
 Consensual adult incest should not be confused with abusive incest
 Incest frequently involves abuse of power in family relationships
 Legalization of incest would encourage patriarchal abuse
Legalizing incest increases the risks of abuse.
Incestuous minority deserves protections.
Legal incest affords existing couples better treatment/aid.
Inbreeding is unsustainable for society, so is bad law.
 Offspring of first-cousins have a low chance of defects
 Incest cannot be successfully banned
Sending law-abiding incestuous couples to prison looks bad.
Difficult enforcement is no cause for legalizing incest.
 Consenting adults have a right to engage in incest
 State has no role in private sexual affairs such as incest
 Adults taught incest as children cannot fully consent
Consenting adults have no right to engage in harmful incest.
 Incest is taboo without a clear rationale as to why
 Incest must be harmful not just "immoral" to be banned
Citizens must tolerate "immorality" such as incest.
Incestuous couples have a right to follow their own morals.
 Incest is actually not universally abhorred
Magnitude of moral abhorrence of incest justifies ban.
Inbreeding is immorally bad for society over time.
Debate: Gun control
Debate: Gun control
 Direct democracy is relatively cheap
 Direct democracy is expensive
Direct democracy generally only works on a small scale.
 Citizens are competent enough to make good policy
Citizens are best at determining their own interests.
 Citizens have a right to sign petitions, vote on referendums
Direct democracy encourages citizens to educate themselves.
Being part of the process is a requirement in a democracy.
Nothing wrong about NIMBYism through initiatives.
 Citizens are not informed enough to make good policy
Voters tend to be self-centered in a direct democracy.
 Voters are too apathetic to make good laws
Direct democracy fosters emotional decision-making.
Direct democracy disables unpopular but necessary decisions.
 Direct democracy often results in radical measures
Rep democracy is less accountabile than direct democracy.
Direct democracy avoids appointment of unaccountable officials.
Direct democracy lacks accountability of decision-making.
 Bills in rep democracy pass through beneficial committees
 Direct democracy dulls politicians' sense of responsibility
 Many founding fathers believed in government by the people
 American founders favored rep democracy over direct dem
 Jean-Jacques Rousseau advocated for direct democracy
Direct democracy promotes democratic principles.
Political parties are unfortunate consequence of rep. democracy.
Direct democracy checks the tendency toward package deals.
Direct democracy over-simplifies policies to a "yes/no" vote.
 Referenda devalue role of legislative bodies
 Campaigns for ballot measures often have unfair resource advantages
Referenda are often a malignant form of protestation.
Rep democracy produces un-representative leaders.
 Direct democracy helps check political class
Direct democracy is too slow and inefficient.
 Direct democracy makes politicians timid and ineffective
 Opponents cannot amend/refine bills in direct democracy
 Direct democracy enables unfortunate minority rule
 Citizens prefer electing reps over passing referendums
Direct democracy generally reduces the risks of corruption.
Rep government can lead to conflicts of interest.
Direct democracy creates risk of corrupt recall efforts.
 Unorganized minorities are vulnerable in direct democracy
Vouchers stop parents paying twice for public and private schools.
Vouchers increase local accountability over central control.
 Vouchers introduce competition without over-regulating public schools
Student vouchers reduce democratic accountability in education.
School vouchers erode national educational standards.
Market-based education vouchers help supply demand.
