 Under non-voucher education systems, citizens that currently pay for private schooling are still charged taxes that are used to fund public schools. Their cost for education is, therefore, two-fold as they are funding both public and private schools simultaneously. Vouchers are designed to provide citizens freedom to spend their tax money as they choose for the type of school they want for their children, avoiding such double taxation.
 Education vouchers localize accountability as opposed to relying on central government standards. This means that the education of children is controlled more by the desires of a community - as it should be - and less by the whims of a central government.
 Incentives to improve schools can be introduced without drammatically changing the whole system of publicly run education. Generally, it keeps everything the same while adding choice, and a sort of free-market competitive mentality. In this mentality, very little regulations are introduced that would weigh down the educational system. Independence and flexibility is maintained. [14]  Furthermore, the public nature of public schools is maintained, with appropriate national standards, but simply with the beneficial introduction of competition into the system through vouchers.
 Another argument against the implementation of a school voucher system is its lack of accountability to the taxpayer. In many states, members of a community's board of education are elected by voters. Similarly, a school budget faces a referendum. Meetings of the Board of Education must be announced in advance, and members of the public are permitted to voice their concerns directly to board members. Although vouchers may be used in private and religious schools, taxpayers are not able to vote on budgetary issues, elect members of the board or even attend board meetings. Opponents of vouchers assert that this disenfranchisement amounts to taxation without representation.  
 Education vouchers erode educational standards by allowing public funding to go to private programs that may not reflect strong national educational standards. School vouchers also decentralize control over schools, creating a scattering of programs, instead of a core educational standard based on our highest educational ideals. It is generally important that schools be held accountable to a single national standard, but education vouchers have the potential to undermine such a standard and the ability to hold schools to account on a national scale. 
