 That may be true but religion all around has caused some of the most high death tolling wars in history such as the crusades. Religion may preach peace but tends to promote fighting amongst people of different religions.
 If religious institutions have some inherent flaws, certainly this favors atheism on many levels as an alternative. 
 Communism is the perfect form of government in a perfect society. Human greed and ignorance caused those flaws in dictators and such. There is no tenant in atheism that says we must conquer or convert. Unlike the Christian or Muslim religions.
 There is no credible evidence to support the claim that Communism "was invented by atheistic idealists who wanted a perfect society without God's help. So it follows that it was necessary to wholly rely on fallible humans to attempt to achieve their goal." Communism is a sociopolitical and economic world view and is not based on attempts to manipulate society without the assistance of a deity. That some commmunists are atheists proves nothing. Some Christians are communists.
 The claims in this section are a mish-mash of irrelevancies. Even if Hitler were motivated by evolution (to the extent that anything even approaching the scientific theory evolution were endorsed by the Nazis at all, it is the discredited beliefs of Houston Stewart Chamberlain who explicitly rejected Darwinism), evolution is not atheistic. The majority of people who accept evolution are religiously inclined. 
 Yes, the idea of theocracy may describe a perfect society, but what good is a perfect society if it doesn't exist and all attempts to create one fail miserably? 
, which it unquestionally did with regard to the holocaust, ignores the fact that the majority of Nazis were Catholics, that the Catholic church collaborated with the Nazi state to the extent of organising the escape of defeated Nazis to South America, that Hitler and the Nazis regularly (even if they did not actually personally believe it themselves) claimed that they were acting in accordance with God's will and with his blessing - the belt worn by non-SS soldiers had upon it "Gott mit uns" ("God with us"), and many senior Nazis endorsed some form of paganism. The Nazi government neither blanket endorsed or repressed religion both according to personal belief and political expediency. It was certainly not an athiestic government.
 Religious Institutions have helped many people do things they otherwise could have not such as quit smoking, stop drinking alcohol, and help many convicted felons turn a new leaf. They also have many volunteer programs within them and are an all around good place to make friends and have fun.
 The actions and beliefs of religious institutions are irrelevant to the debate of whether or not Atheism is a sound philosophy, as well as to the issue of evidence for or against God. An idea or philosophy is true or false apart from any institution, organization, or person that may claim to believe or follow that philosophy. One must look at the worldview in question and from that decide whether it fits with what we see in the universe. 
 The crusades which the atheists have mentioned in this debate were started by the Catholic church in an age when they were notorious for their corruption. When you criticise religious institutions, judge them by their scripture- in this case the Bible. The Bible says that the Jews are God's chosen people and would never support a war like the crusades where so many Jews were killed. The Catholic church were ignoring the Bible and so cannot in this situation be called true Christians. Therefore you can't say that the crusades happened due to Christianity.
 Communism, the ideology providing the ground for so many brutal dictatorships throughout the last century, was mainly followed by atheists.
 It was invented by atheistic idealists who wanted a perfect society without God's help. Karl Marx, probably the most influential man with regard to the founding of communism, is well known to have been very critical of religion, famously calling it "the opium of the people". Lenin also hated religion. So it follows that it was necessary to wholly rely on fallible humans to attempt to achieve their goal. Every Communist society in history has been at least mildly repressive and all have been proven to be corrupt, with most caring little for human rights. Yes, the theory of Communism may describe a perfect society, but what good is a perfect society if it doesn't exist and all attempts to create one fail miserably?
 In Communist prisons many Christians were subjected to vigorous brainwashing with the intent of killing their faith, and many were also tortured in other ways. Our opponents in this debate have claimed that atheists make no attempts to convert, but this is clearly not true. For more on this topic please see  Debate: Evangelism  to debate whether evangelism is in itself ethical, if humane methods are used and no one is  forced  to convert, only encouraged.
 Take the Second World War, which was caused partly by Hitler's belief that the Germans were superior, a result of his belief in Evolution. The Nazi government was repressive of religion (see  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religion_in_Nazi_Germany , and see the section headed "Nazi policy towards Churches"), and arguably Germany's main opponent in the war, the USSR, was likewise repressive of religion.
 Just because you believe in a just God doesn't mean you are automatically expected to be perfect. Most humans are theistic and since all humans are sinners, most sinners are theists also. But just because a religion's followers are fallen does not mean that the religion itself is automatically disproven.
