 Competition through free market capitalism would increase the quality of education for both private and public education sectors as it has for higher education with publicly funded state universities directly competing against private universities. Also, similar competition has helped in manufacturing, energy, transportation, and parcel postal (UPS, FedEx vs. USPS) sectors of government that have been socialized and later opened up to free market competition.
 Under a voucher system, successful schools would attract students, while bad schools would be forced to reform or close. 
 Many state schools are failing and a voucher system provides an escape valve for students that would otherwise be locked into unfortunate circumstances. Children are locked into bad schools, particularly in inner-city and under-privileged areas. Parents must be given the opportunity to escape from bad state education systems if educational standards are to improve. [9] 
 The key difference between a k-12 and a University system is that the U.S. University system receives a substantial portion of its funding from students and subsidies to students in the form of scholarships, government grants, and subsidized loans. This is argued to be conceptually equivalent to school vouchers because the money is provided ultimately to the student and in such a way that the student's ability to choose between schools is maintained. Because choice is maintained, universities must compete harder to attract students, which many proponents argue is the key ingredient in the relative success of the Universities system over the K-12 system. Thus, some argue that a similar competition-inducing approach should be taken with the K-12 system through school vouchers. [10] 
 Vouchers allow individual school cultures to develop, enabling teachers to choose schools that promote teaching approaches that match their teaching styles, and enable students/parents to choose schools that match the students learning styles and abilities. 
 As schools work to attract particular kinds of pupils, variety and choice within the education system is increased. [11] 
 Some pupils will always end up stuck in dying, under-funded schools because over-subscribed schools cannot expand fast enough. Vouchers worsen this problem by subjecting these schools to competition, which they will fail against. Such schools and the students that have no choice to attend these schools - because there is no space in other schools or for other reasons - will simply lose out more.
 Some economist critics point to the problem of "cream skimming," a variety of adverse selection in the educational market. With a greater pool of applicants, the private schools could be more selective over which students to admit, excluding those who do not belong to a preferred group (for instance, religion or ethnicity), those with disabilities such as autism or multiple sclerosis, and those with disciplinary problems. By law, the public schools must accept any student. So that they would presumably end up with all students whom the private schools turn away for such reasons. This would likely further undermine the reputation and competitiveness of the public schools, leading to a vicious circle that tends toward the total abolition of the public schools and perhaps the end of universal education.
 Education vouchers erode educational standards by allowing public funding to go to private programs that may not reflect strong national educational standards. School vouchers also decentralize control over schools, creating a scattering of programs, instead of a core educational standard based on our highest educational ideals. 
 One reason given for being allowed to choose private schools is the belief that private schools offer better education – a belief disputed by the United States Department of Education in their 2006 study of the public education they oversee. There is no conclusive evidence that private schools necessarily produce better test results or more successful human beings.
  "The Case Against Vouchers". National Education Association : "NEA and its affiliates support direct efforts to improve public schools. There is no need to set up new threats to schools for not performing. What is needed is help for the students, teachers, and schools who are struggling."
