  "Critics are many, but law has solid public support". School Reform News. March 2004  - "Solid Public Support. Bush and NCLB supporters on Capitol Hill also pointed to evidence of public support for NCLB standards and accountability. A national survey conducted in early January for Americans for Better Education by The Winston Group found a solid majority of Americans view NCLB favorably, with support highest among African-Americans and parents of children in public schools. [...] More than 100 black and Latino school officials signed a letter to Congress condemning calls to repeal NCLB’s accountability requirements, asserting the naysayers would “turn back the clock to a time when schools--particularly in suburban communities--could coast comfortably on the performance of a handful of high-performing students and hide serious problems behind misleading averages."
  No Child Left Behind and Faith-Based Leaders. United States Department of Education. Retrieved February 18, 2009  - "Faith-based organizations can receive funds to provide tutoring and other academic enrichment services for eligible low-income students. Religious organizations can become supplemental educational services providers by applying to states and then working with districts to provide services directly to students in reading, language arts and mathematics. Many faith-based organizations are already providing these services in innercity and rural communities across the country, where assistance is needed most. Faith-based organizations often find it useful to establish their program as a not-for-profit (501c3) to receive funds."
 No Child Left Behind creates such impossible standards that it frequently causes modestly performing schools to be labelled "failing" and to be put at risk of privatization or being turned into charter schools. 
 NCLB violates the separation of church and state by allowing "faith-based" groups to serve as private tutors with public money. The US Department of Education's website says: "No Child Left Behind provides opportunities for faith-based organizations to assist in educating children."
